Pope Francis attends a conference in Naples, Italy, in 2019. Francis, seen at left with his brother Oscar, was born on December 17, 1936. He was the eldest child of Mario and Regina Bergoglio, Italian immigrants in Argentina. Francis as a young boy. Francis with his parents in 1958. Francis was ordained as a priest in 1969. In high school, he studied to become a chemical technician. Francis poses for a photo during an Easter procession in 2000. A couple of years earlier he had become the archbishop of Buenos Aires. In 2001, Francis was made a cardinal by Pope John Paul II. Francis greets parishioners in Buenos Aires. The future pope washes a woman's feet at a maternity hospital in Buenos Aires in 2005. Francis meets Pope Benedict XVI, the man he would eventually succeed, while on a trip to the Vatican in 2007. Francis takes public transportation before celebrating Mass in Buenos Aires in 2008. As archbishop of Buenos Aires, Bergoglio took the bus to work and cooked his own meals. Francis holds Mass outside a church in Buenos Aires in 2009. Francis gives holy communion to Roberto Bendini, Argentina's former army chief, in 2009. Francis waves to the crowd from the balcony of St. Peter's Basilica after he was elected as the 266th pope on March 13, 2013. Benedict XVI had announced his retirement a month earlier, citing his "advanced age." People watch the new Pope after he was introduced at the Vatican. In addition to being the first Latin American pope and the first from the Americas, Francis is also the first Jesuit pope. He's also the first non-European pope in more than 1,000 years. A day after his election, the Pope pays his lodging bill at the Paulus VI, where he stayed during conclave. The Pope answers reporters' questions while flying back from a trip to Brazil in July 2013. During the impromptu news conference, the Pope said that he would not "judge" gays and lesbians, including gay priests. "If someone is gay and he searches for the Lord and has good will, who am I to judge?" he said. Many saw the move as the opening of a more tolerant era in the Catholic Church. In November 2013, the Pope dons a red nose with members of the Rainbow Association Marco Iagulli Onlus. The charity uses clown therapy in hospitals, nursing homes and orphanages. Francis was named Time magazine's Person of the Year in 2013. The Pope is presented with a gift by Argentine President Cristina Fernández during a private audience at the Vatican in March 2014. Britain's Queen Elizabeth II and Prince Philip have an audience with the Pope during their one-day visit to Rome in April 2014. A balloon flies past the Pope during his general audience in St Peter's Square in May 2014. Francis prays next to a rabbi at the Western Wall in Jerusalem's Old City in May 2014. The Pope went on a three-day trip to the Holy Land, and he was accompanied by Jewish and Muslim leaders from his home country of Argentina. The Pope signs a guestbook while meeting with bishops in Seoul, South Korea, in August 2014. Francis waves to the faithful during a weekly audience at the Vatican in October 2014. The Pope kisses a girl during a special audience at the Vatican in November 2014. Francis blows out candles on a cake as he celebrated his 78th birthday in December 2014. Pope Francis prays on the floor of St. Peter's Basilica while observing Good Friday in April 2015. People in Quito, Ecuador, gather near a huge video screen broadcasting the Pope's visit to the city in July 2015. Francis shakes hands with former Cuban leader Fidel Castro in September 2015. During his trip to Cuba, the Pope praised the reconciliations taking place between Cuba and the United States. The Pope talks with US President Barack Obama while visiting the White House in September 2015. It was the fourth time a pope had visited the United States. Francis addresses a joint session of the US Congress in September 2015. The Pope waves to a crowd from the US Capitol in September 2015. Francis arrives to speak to the UN General Assembly in September 2015. The Pope celebrates Mass at New York's Madison Square Garden during his trip to the United States. The Pope kisses a baby at the Vatican in October 2015. Francis tries on a traditional sombrero he received as a gift from a Mexican journalist while on a flight to the country in February 2016. The Pope meets migrants at the Moria refugee camp on the Greek island of Lesbos in April 2016. He received an emotional welcome during a visit in which he showed solidarity with migrants fleeing war and poverty. Francis passes the main entrance to Auschwitz-Birkenau, the former concentration camp in Poland, in July 2016. The Pope was there to pay tribute to those who died in the Holocaust. The Pope releases a dove as a symbol of peace while in Tbilisi, Georgia, in September 2016. Francis and a group of cardinals meet with Pope Emeritus Benedict XVI in a chapel at the Vatican in November 2016. The Pope poses with members of the International Rural Catholic Association while at the Vatican in December 2016. Francis and Pope Tawadros II, the head of Egypt's Coptic Orthodox Church, sign a joint declaration in Cairo in April 2017. Francis was on a two-day trip to Egypt to forge Muslim-Christian brotherhood and show solidarity with the country's persecuted Coptic Christian minority. Francis stands with US President Donald Trump and his family during a private audience at the Vatican in May 2017. Joining the President are his wife, Melania, and his daughter Ivanka. The Pope speaks to the crew aboard the International Space Station in October 2017. It was second papal phone call to space: Pope Benedict XVI rang the space station in 2011. Francis leads the Way of the Cross torchlight procession in front of the Colosseum in Rome in March 2018. The Pope is greeted by a group of nuns at the Vatican in August 2018. Francis arrives with the "popemobile" in St. Peter's Square in October 2018. Francis celebrates Mass as seven new saints were recognized in October 2018. Pope Francis is framed by cell phones as he greets people at the Vatican in January 2019. The Pope celebrates Mass in Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates, in February 2019. It was the first time a pope has visited an Arab Gulf state, and it was the first time a pope had celebrated Mass in the Arabian Peninsula, the birthplace of Islam. Francis receives Russian President Vladimir Putin and his delegation in July 2019. The Pope walks with cardinals during a Palm Sunday Mass in April 2019. The Pope greets people at the Vatican in September 2019. The Pope delivers a speech during a meeting of religious leaders at a university in Bangkok, Thailand, in November 2019. Thailand was the start of a seven-day Asia trip that also saw the Pope visit Japan. The Pope walks out from Assumption Cathedral as young people reach out to touch him in Bangkok. The Pope delivers his weekly blessing from the window of his private library in March 2020. St. Peter's Square is normally swarming with tens of thousands of visitors, but the Vatican was on lockdown because of the coronavirus pandemic. The Pope prays with priests in a Vatican courtyard in September 2020. Francis, surrounded by the remains of destroyed churches, is driven in Mosul, Iraq, in March 2021. The Pope was in Iraq for four days. It was the first-ever papal visit to Iraq, and it was Francis' first trip outside Italy since the start of the Covid-19 pandemic. The Pope celebrates Easter Mass in April 2021. Francis shakes hands with a man dressed as Spider-Man while visiting with people at the Vatican in June 2021. The masked man, who works with sick children in hospitals, also gave a Spider-Man mask to the Pope. The Pope holds Mass at the Vatican in September 2021. US President Joe Biden gives the Pope a challenge coin during his trip to the Vatican in October 2021. Between them is Italian translator Elisabetta Savigni Ullmann. Challenge coins originated in the military, and this one included the insignia of a Delaware Army National Guard unit that Biden's son Beau served in. Biden said during his visit that coins are given to "warriors and leaders" and that the pope is "the most significant warrior for peace I've ever met." Biden, a devout lifelong Catholic, met with the Pope for 90 minutes and said he discussed "a lot of personal things" with the pontiff. It was the fourth meeting between Francis and Biden, but their first since Biden became President. People take pictures of Pope Francis at the Vatican in November 2021. The Pope boards a flight to Malta in April 2022. The Pope shows a flag that was brought to him from Bucha, Ukraine, during one of his general audiences at the Vatican in April 2022. Francis greets US House Speaker Nancy Pelosi as he leads Mass at the Vatican in June 2022. The Pope leads a prayer from his window at the Vatican in June 2022. The pope dons a headdress while visiting with Indigenous peoples in Maskwacis, Alberta, in July 2022. As he kicked off a weeklong "penitential pilgrimage" to Canada, Francis spoke of his "sorrow, indignation and shame" over the Catholic Church's role in the abuse of Canadian Indigenous children in residential schools. He apologized and promised a "serious investigation" into what happened. Pope Francis speaks with Bahrain's King Hamad bin Isa al-Khalifa during their meeting in Awali, Bahrain, in November, 2022. Pope Francis leaves Ndjili International Airport in the popemobile to attend a meeting with the authorities, civil society and diplomatic corps at the Garden of the Palais de la Nation in Kinshasa, Democratic Republic of Congo, on January 31, 2023. Pope Francis waves as he arrives at his weekly audience in St. Peter's Square at the Vatican, on March 29, 2023. Francis was hospitalized with a pulmonary infection after having difficulty breathing and will remain in treatment for several days, the Vatican said. Pope Francis leaves Palm Sunday Mass in St. Peter's Square on April 2, 2023, a day after being discharged from the hospital, where he was treated for a respiratory infection.