Our live coverage for the day has ended. Follow the latest weather news here or read through the updates below. More than 450,000 energy customers across 10 states are without power early Saturday morning, according to tracker PowerOutage.us, after severe weather tore through vast portions of the central US Friday and continued overnight.  Indiana has the most outages with around 99,000 homes and businesses in the dark, followed by more than 84,000 in Minnesota. Here's a run down so far: Indiana: 99,063 customers without power Minnesota: 84,092  Ohio: 59,446 Arkansas: 55,633 Illinois: 55,731 Tennessee: 48,323 Michigan: 17,629 Wisconsin: 13,177 Kentucky: 13,282 Iowa: 12,880 ##Arkansas## ##Tennessee## ##Indiana## ##Illinois## A tornado watch is in effect for east-central Mississippi until 7:00 a.m. CDT, according to the Storm Prediction Center.  That includes the city of Columbus. Storms developing in this area could contain a couple of intense tornadoes, with wind gusts up to 70 mph. Two people have been killed as a destructive storm swept through Sullivan County, according to Sgt. Matt Ames with the Indiana State Police. This brings the death toll from the storms raking through large portions of the central US to at least five, including three people who were killed Friday in Arkansas. Several residences and the local volunteer fire department building were also damaged, Ames said. Emergency crews continue to provide help in the area. Correction: An earlier version of this post gave an incorrect location for Sullivan County. ##Indiana## Jim Pirtle, the emergency management director for Sullivan County, Indiana, told CNN his wife became trapped inside his family's home as a storm ripped through the county Friday night, destroying the house. Their son was able to rescue her, he said. “I called (my wife) 45 minutes before it hit. I told her, 'Robin, you need to go somewhere.' We don’t have a basement," Pirtle said. "I was on the phone with her and she was crying, ‘Jim I love you’ and it started tearing the house apart.” “We got hit bad,” Pirtle said speaking by phone from Florida. The official was out of state when the severe weather hit Sullivan County. He said he has been working with emergency officials remotely. The storm hit the southern side of the city and "destroyed a lot of homes," Pirtle said. “I’m not sure about fatalities, yet,” he added. “We still got people missing." Correction: An earlier version of this post gave an incorrect location for Sullivan County. ##Indiana## The number of preliminary tornado reports during Friday's storms has ticked up to at least 53, according to the Storm Prediction Center. Here's where they have been reported: Illinois: 22 Arkansas: 12 Iowa: 8 Wisconsin: 5 Tennessee: 4 Mississippi: 2 ##Arkansas## ##Tennessee## ##Illinois## Multiple houses in the small city of Sullivan, Indiana, have sustained “severe damage” due to storms in the area, said Sullivan Mayor Clint Lamb. “We need all citizens to stay safe and stay put,” Lamb said in a Facebook post overnight. “First responders need clear streets so they can tend to affected areas. Please pray for the Sullivan families and public safety personnel.”  Sullivan is around 100 miles southwest of Indianapolis. The mayor also thanked local police, fire, and ambulance services for their assistance. Lamb said that a tornado had touched down in the area, however, the National Weather Service has not confirmed any of the storms in the state are tornadoes. According to meteorologist Andrew White with the Indianapolis Office of the National Weather Service, three Indiana counties — Howard, Johnson, and Sullivan — have been hit hard by storms. Howard County Emergency Management Director Janice Hart, however, described the damage in the county as minor and reported no injuries. Sullivan County was under a tornado warning and a special statement had been sent out on the storm that moved through the county.  A tornado watch is in effect for northern Alabama, northern Mississippi and central Tennessee until 7:00 a.m. CDT (8 a.m. ET) Saturday, according to the Storm Prediction Center. That includes the cities of Nashville, Tennessee, and Huntsville, Alabama. The areas could see tornadoes rated as EF-2 or higher in intensity, with destructive winds topping 111 mph. Storms could also bring wind gusts up to 70 mph and isolated events of hail nearly the size of an egg. ##Tennessee## More than 200 people were packed inside the Apollo Theatre in Belvidere, Illinois, for an event when its roof collapsed Friday night, leaving one person dead and dozens injured, the city fire chief said. The collapse occurred as a storm hit Belvidere's Boone County, with winds in the area reported to be in excess of 50 mph. It is not yet clear whether the storm caused the theater's roof to cave in. First responders arrived within minutes of the collapse and began pulling people from the debris, Belvidere Fire Department Chief Shawn Schadle said. Twenty-eight people were taken to hospital by ambulance, he said, adding that five had severe injuries. Rescue teams performed an initial search of the theater and were carrying out a second search, "looking into the stabilization of the building,” Schadle said. The venue's event coordinator estimated that approximately 260 concertgoers, staff and performers were in the theater, the chief said. The night's headliner, metal band Morbid Angel, announced on Facebook that their show was canceled due to the weather. One of the other bands set to play, Revocation, said in a Facebook post that "everyone in the bands and crew are safe." It added, "Our thoughts are with everyone affected by this disaster." Illinois Governor JB Pritzker said in a tweet that his office is “closely monitoring” the situation. ##Illinois## A tornado watch is in effect for southeastern Indiana, northern Kentucky and western Ohio until 5 a.m. EDT, according to the Storm Prediction Center. This includes Dayton and Cincinnati, Ohio. Areas impacted by the brewing storms could see a handful of tornadoes, wind gusts of up to 70 mph, and egg-sized hail. ##Indiana## Nearly 300,000 energy customers are in the dark late Friday night in states impacted by storms sweeping through large swaths of the central US, according to tracker PowerOutage.us. Illinois has the most outages reported with more than 100,000 customers without power, followed by nearly 69,000 outages in Arkansas, the tracker shows. Here's a run down so far: Illinois: 105,334 customers without power Arkansas: 68,845  Indiana: 33,205 Tennessee: 25,204 Iowa: 25,048 Wisconsin: 13,627 Missouri: 16,580 Michigan: 10,863 ##Arkansas## ##Tennessee## ##Indiana## ##Illinois## Five people are being treated in a Covington, Tennessee, hospital after a tornado touched down in the city, a hospital official said. The Baptist Memorial Hospital-Tipton was not damaged by the storm and its staff are still able to receive and treat patients, Kimberly Alexander, director of media relations for Baptist Memorial Health Care, said. The tornado has rendered the city "impassable," the Covington Police Department said on Facebook Friday night, sharing photos of roads blocked by downed power poles and large trees toppled in front of homes. Police asked residents to stay off the roads due to hazards and so emergency crews can pass through to critical areas. “Please stay home,” Covington Mayor Jan Hensley said in a social media post. “Do not drive around looking. Power lines are down. We are trying to get cleaned up.”  ##Tennessee## The number of preliminary tornado reports made in the US Friday has risen to 43, according to the Storm Prediction Center. Here's where they have been reported: Illinois: 16 Arkansas: 12 Iowa: 8 Wisconsin: 3 Tennessee: 2 Mississippi: 2 ##Arkansas## ##Tennessee## ##Illinois## At least two people have died in hard-hit Wynne, Arkansas, as a result of tornadoes that have torn through the area, St. Francis County Coroner Miles Kimble confirmed to CNN. That's in addition to an earlier report of one person dead in North Little Rock, Arkansas. Kimble is assisting the coroner's office in Wynne, which is located in Cross County. CNN has reached out to the Cross County coroner’s office. Footage from Wynne shows significant damage, with roofs ripped off of homes and a local school and trees uprooted and tossed across roadways. The town was "cut in half by damage from east to west," Wynne Mayor Jennifer Hobbs told CNN. ##Arkansas## There have been 30 preliminary reports of tornadoes across Arkansas, Illinois, Iowa, Tennessee and Mississippi as of Friday night, according to the Storm Prediction Center. Here's where they have been reported: Arkansas: 12 Illinois: 7 Iowa: 8 Tennessee: 2 Mississippi: 1 ##Arkansas## ##Tennessee## ##Illinois## At least one person is dead in North Little Rock, Arkansas, after a tornado hit the area on Friday, Madeline Roberts, a Pulaski County spokesperson, confirmed to CNN. There are at least 50 hospitalizations due to the tornado in Pulaski County as well, but they “expect more,” Roberts said. Correction: An earlier version of this post gave an incorrect title for Madeline Roberts. ##Arkansas## Severe storms have downed power lines and trees and caused significant damage to homes and businesses in the Springfield suburb of Sherman, Illinois, Sangamon County Sheriff Jack Campbell told CNN. “We've got several businesses that have been basically destroyed,” Campbell said. Among those businesses is a daycare with a collapsed roof, Campbell said. No one was in the building at the time of the storm.  So far, the only confirmed storm-related injury was the result of a traffic accident, the sheriff said. The victim was taken to a hospital with non-life-threatening injuries. Deputies are still surveying rural areas of the county late Friday to find out the extent of the damage, Campbell said. ##Illinois## A tornado watch is in effect for east-central Illinois, central Indiana and western Kentucky until 2 a.m. CDT, according to the Storm Prediction Center. Cities that could be impacted include Indianapolis, Indiana, and Louisville, Kentucky. Storms developing in the area could result in intense tornadoes, golf-ball-sized hail and strong wind gusts of up to 80 mph, according to the storm center. ##Indiana## At least 24 people have been hospitalized in Little Rock, Arkansas, as a result of severe weather in the area, according to Mayor Frank Scott Jr. No fatalities have been reported in the area as of 7 p.m. Friday evening, the mayor said. “Property damage is extensive and we are still responding,” Scott said in a tweet. Two confirmed tornados touched down in Arkansas Friday afternoon, according to the National Weather Service.  Gov. Sarah Huckabee Sanders has activated the Arkansas National Guard following severe weather. Sanders noted “widespread damage” in Wynne and has been in touch with local officials in the area. “Praying for the safety of all Arkansans who are in the path of these storms,” Sanders said on Twitter. Sanders declared a state of emergency in Arkansas earlier Friday due to severe storms and at least two confirmed tornado touchdowns. ##Arkansas## A particularly dangerous tornado watch is in effect for northwestern Alabama, northern Mississippi and western and middle Tennessee until 1 a.m. CDT, according to the Storm Prediction Center. The tornadoes that develop could have EF-2 or higher intensity, with destructive winds over 111 mph, according to the center. Additionally, these storms will contain wind gusts to 80 mph along with hail close to baseball size. Cities in the watch include Nashville, Tennessee, and Tupelo, Mississippi. ##Tennessee## A line of severe weather that moved through Wynne, Arkansas, caused severe damage, mayor Jennifer Hobbs said Friday evening. The apparent tornado cut a stark line of destruction through the city of about 8,300 people, according to Hobbs. “The town is basically cut in half by damage from east to west,” the mayor told CNN. Officials are working to determine the total amount of damage and potential injuries, Hobbs said. “We are still in triage mode,” she added. ##Arkansas## A tornado emergency has been declared by the National Weather Service for a large, confirmed and destructive tornado over Covington, Tennessee. This storm is 40 miles northeast of Memphis and moving northeast at 40 mph. This is the same tornado that moved through Wynne, Arkansas, and crossed the Mississippi River north of Memphis. ##Tennessee## People are trapped in homes in Wynne, Arkansas, with “significant damage” in the area, Arkansas Division of Emergency Management (ADEM) spokesperson Rebekah Magnus told CNN. ADEM does not have exact numbers of those injured in the state as local emergency coordinators are still responding to damage from the severe weather, Magnus said. First responders are assessing the area of Wynne and offering aid to those trapped, according to ADEM. Shelters are being opened in the area to assist as well. Two confirmed tornados touched down in Arkansas Friday afternoon, according to the National Weather Service.  ##Arkansas## A possible tornado was seen Friday evening passing past a local TV station’s stationary camera in Solon, Iowa. Sheets of rain could be seen as the skies darkened, and the camera from CNN affiliate KCRG suddenly began shaking violently. “That’s not us moving the camera,” KCRG chief meteorologist Joe Winters advised viewers. Debris flew past the camera. “That would affect our roof. Our roof just got lifted off,” Winters said, referring to the building where their camera is mounted. Seconds later, roofing from a building across the street from the camera could be seen lifted into the air. “That’s how quick it happens,” Winters said. “That’s why when warnings are issued, you need to take them seriously and get into a safe place immediately.” Baptist Health Medical Center has received 21 patients, five in critical condition, with injuries sustained from the tornado that hit the Little Rock area, hospital spokesperson Cara Wade told CNN. Two confirmed tornados touched down in Arkansas Friday afternoon, including one in Pulaski County, where Little Rock is located, according to the National Weather Service.  ##Arkansas## Missouri Gov. Mike Parson has activated the state emergency operations plan and the Missouri National Guard as a result of severe weather headed towards the area. “As areas across the state are already beginning to be impacted by severe weather, we want to ensure all necessary state resources are available if extreme disruptions and damage were to affect our communities,” Parson said. The executive order will expire on April 30, unless terminated or extended, according to a press release from the governor’s office. A reported tornado near Ottumwa, Iowa, Friday afternoon caused structural damage but no known injuries, local emergency management officials say. “I have reports of damage to three structures so far,” said Wapello County Emergency Management Director Tim Richmond. The local sheriff’s office is completing an initial sweep of the area and has not reported injuries so far, according to Richmond. “EMA damage assessment teams will deploy most likely in the morning,” he said. Gov. Sarah Huckabee Sanders declared a state of emergency in Arkansas Friday due to severe storms and confirmed tornado touchdowns, including one near Little Rock. “We will spare no resource to assist with response and recovery efforts for Arkansans impacted,” Sanders said on Twitter. The National Weather Service confirmed two tornado touchdowns in Arkansas on Friday afternoon, including one in Pulaski County, where Little Rock is located. Three areas of the city have sustained damage as a result of the tornado that hit the region, according to Aaron Sadler, a spokesperson for Little Rock Mayor Frank Scott, Jr.  ##Arkansas## The University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences (UAMS) has received one patient as a result of severe weather and a tornado landing in the area, UAMS spokesperson Andrea Peel told CNN. The medical center is currently operating on a mass casualty level 1, which is a standby status, Peel said. “We have not yet seen an influx of patients,” she added. UAMS is the only adult level trauma center in Little Rock, according to Peel. UAMS was previously operating at a level 3, which calls for all hands on deck, as a precautionary measure to the incoming weather, Peel said. “Once we realized we had plenty of personnel we lowered the level,” she added. The medical center expects to see more patients roll in when emergency vehicles make their way back to them, according to Peel. ##Arkansas## A line of storms that threatened tornadoes in northern Illinois Friday afternoon spawned large and damaging hail, including baseball-sized hail that struck a rural roadway in Banner, according to the Fulton County Emergency Services and Disaster Agency. Four vehicles were so severely damaged by hail they had to be towed away and the roadway was temporarily closed, agency director Chris Helle told CNN. Photos from the agency showed windshields completely shattered and a hood covered with dents. Banner is about 25 miles southwest of Peoria, where storm spotters reported Ping Pong ball-sized hail. ##Illinois## Little Rock Mayor Frank Scott, Jr has requested the assistance of the National Guard following a tornado touchdown in his community Friday. “I have been in contact with Gov. @SarahHuckabee Sanders to request National Guard assistance with our response to the tornado emergency. Again, please stay away from the affected areas to allow emergency responders access,” Scott said on Twitter. Earlier: The National Weather Service confirmed two tornado touchdowns in Arkansas on Friday afternoon, including one in Pulaski County where Little Rock is located. Three areas of the city have sustained damage as a result of the tornado that hit the region, according to Aaron Sadler, a spokesperson with Scott's office.  ##Arkansas## There is a “high probability” that there are multiple injuries due to a tornado that passed through Pulaski County, an Arkansas Division of Emergency Management (ADEM) spokesperson told CNN. ADEM is still gathering information and does not have a specific number of those injured. "There is widespread damage in the area,” ADEM spokesperson LaTresha Woodruff said. CNN has reached out to Little Rock's Emergency Management Division for comment. ##Arkansas## Bill and Hillary Clinton National Airport in Little Rock was forced to pause operations for approximately 45 minutes due to severe weather, following a tornado touchdown in Pulaski County, Arkansas, according to Shane Carter, director of Public Affairs & Governmental Relations for the airport. The airport did not sustain damage and has since resumed operations, Carter said. ##Arkansas## Emergency management teams are currently assessing the damage following a tornado touchdown in Pulaski County, Arkansas, Pulaski County spokesperson Madeline Roberts told CNN. The city has multiple reports of downed trees and other damages in the area, Roberts said. The National Weather Service said a second confirmed tornado touched down in Garland County. No injuries or structural damages have been reported in Garland County, Garland County Emergency Management Deputy Director Bob King told CNN. ##Arkansas## Pictures taken in Little Rock by a local resident show storm damage to Little Rock Fire Station 9 after a possible tornado came through the area.  The fire station appears to have sustained damage to its roof and has multiple smashed windows. Debris, which includes sheets of twisted metal, is scattered around the area. Broken branches and uprooted trees can also be seen in the photos.  CNN has reached out to the Little Rock Fire Department and has not received a response. Earlier: The National Weather Service confirmed two tornado touchdowns in Arkansas on Friday afternoon, including one in Pulaski County where the city of Little Rock is located. Three areas of Little Rock have sustained damage as a result of the tornado that hit the region according to Aaron Sadler, a spokesperson with Mayor Frank Scott Jr.’s office.  ##Arkansas## Arkansas Gov. Sarah Huckabee Sanders says there is “significant damage” to the area of central Arkansas as a result of Friday afternoon's tornado. “Arkansans must continue to stay weather aware as storms are continuing to move through,” Huckabee Sanders said in a tweet. State police and the emergency management teams are working with local authorities to assist injured residents, the governor said. “Praying for all those who were and remain in the path of this storm,” she added. ##Arkansas## The National Weather Service has confirmed two tornado touchdowns in Arkansas on Friday afternoon.  The touchdowns took place in Pulaski County and Garland County, according to forecaster Travis Shelton.  Pulaski County includes the city of Little Rock. Garland County sits about 70 miles outside of Little Rock. The area is under a rare Level 5 out of 5 threat for severe weather. ##Arkansas## The National Weather Service has confirmed a tornado touchdown in metro Little Rock and its suburban areas.  The agency has gotten multiple reports of injuries and damage to infrastructure, according to meteorologist Colby Pope.  Three areas of Little Rock have sustained damage as a result of the tornado that hit the region, Aaron Sadler, a spokesperson with Mayor Frank Scott Jr.’s office, told CNN. The governor’s office is asking people to stay away from the areas of Shackleford, Rodney Parham and Breckenridge to “allow emergency responders to do their work.” Damage assessment is currently underway in those areas. ##Arkansas## Over 50,000 customers are without power in Pulaski County in Arkansas, as a confirmed tornado west of Little Rock is expected to pass just north of downtown. According to PowerOutage.us, 53,714 customers are without power. A tornado emergency was declared in the last hour, and the National Weather Service located in North Little Rock evacuated to a tornado shelter. The NWS office in Memphis is taking over issuing warnings. ##Arkansas## A new tornado watch is now in effect for northern Illinois, northwest Indiana, southern Wisconsin and Lake Michigan until 10 p.m. CT (11 p.m. ET), according to the Storm Prediction Center. Storms developing this afternoon and evening are expected to produce a couple of intense tornadoes, damaging wind gusts to 70 mph and hail as large as golf balls. Cities in the watch include Chicago, Madison, Milwaukee and Rockford. ##Illinois## Kentucky Gov. Andy Beshear issued a state of emergency ahead of the severe weather headed for his state. “This is the worst forecast that I’ve seen as Governor,” Beshear said in a statement. “I am declaring a state of emergency so that we can be prepared.” Forecasters warned of enhanced risk for severe storms, Level 3 of 5, in areas of the state including Louisville. The main threats are isolated long-track tornadoes, damaging winds and large hail. Kentuckians are expected to be sheltered by 5 p.m. local time (6 p.m. ET). “I don’t want to lose one more Kentuckian, so everybody be safe,” Beshear added. The governor also advised for all state office buildings to close by 3 p.m. CST on Friday. Elsewhere Friday, a rare Level 5 out of 5 alert has been issued for parts of the Midwest and South, impacting nearly 3 million people Friday evening. A rare “high risk” Level 5 out of 5 alert has been issued Friday for parts of the Midwest and Mid-South, impacting nearly 3 million people, according to the National Weather Service’s Storm Prediction Center. High-risk areas include two main regions: Portions of southeastern Iowa, northwestern Illinois and northeastern Missouri, including places like Davenport and Iowa City in Iowa. Portions of eastern Arkansas, northern Mississippi and southwestern Tennessee, including Memphis. Additionally, severe storms are expected to sweep across some central and southern states beginning Friday afternoon, bringing the threat of several strong tornadoes, large hail and damaging winds to nearly 90 million people across 21 states. Tornado watches have been issued for 15 million people, stretching from southern Arkansas to northern Iowa until 8 p.m CT (9 p.m. ET) and parts of northeast Texas, northwest Louisiana and far southern Oklahoma until 9 p.m. CT (10 p.m ET). Shreveport, Louisiana, and Tyler, Texas, are included in the tornado watch. These tornado watches have been labeled a “particularly dangerous situation” by the Storm Prediction Center. The prediction center warns of a couple of tornadoes, large hail and damaging wind gusts of up to 70 mph.