Pakistan's leaders and the man who wants to unseat them are engaged in high stakes political brinkmanship that is taking a toll on the collective psyche of the nation's people -- and many are exhausted. As their politicians argue, citizens struggle with soaring inflation against an uptick in militant attacks. In major cities, residents regularly navigate police roadblocks for protests, school closures and internet shutdowns. And more than a dozen people have been killed in food lines while waiting to receive subsidized bags of flour, in a recent string of deadly crushes at food distribution centers. Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif's government is attempting to unlock billions of dollars in emergency financing from the International Monetary Fund, a process delayed since last November -- but some people aren't prepared to wait. Government statistics show a surge in the number of citizens leaving Pakistan -- up almost threefold in 2022 compared to previous years. Zainab Abidi, who works in tech, left Pakistan for Dubai last August and says her "main worry" is for her family, who she "really hopes can get out." Others, like Fauzia Rashif, a cleaner in Islamabad, don't have the option to leave. "I don't have a passport, I've never left the country. These days the biggest concern is the constant expenses. I worry about my children but there really isn't anywhere to go," she said. Experts say the pessimism about the Pakistan's stability in the months ahead is not misplaced, as the country's political heavyweights tussle for power. Maleeha Lodhi, former Pakistan ambassador to the United Nations, Britain and the United States, told CNN the "prolonged and intense nature" of the confrontation between Pakistan's government and former Prime Minister Imran Khan is "unprecedented." She said the only way forward is for "all sides to step aside and call for a ceasefire through interlocutors to agree on a consensus for simultaneous provincial and national elections." That solution, however, is not something that can easily be achieved as both sides fight in the street -- and in court. How did we get here? The current wave of chaos can be traced back to April 2022, when Khan, a former cricket star who founded the Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf Party (PTI), was ousted from office in a vote of no confidence on grounds of mismanaging the economy. In response, Khan rallied his supporters in street protests, accusing the current government of colluding with the military and the United States in a conspiracy to remove him from office, claims both parties rejected. Khan survived an assassination attempt last November during one of his rallies and has since been beset with legal troubles spearheaded by Sharif's government. As of March 21, Khan was facing six charges, while 84 have been registered against other PTI workers, according to the central police office in Lahore. However, Khan's party claims that 127 cases have been lodged against him alone. Earlier this month, attempts to arrest Khan from his residence in Lahore led to violent clashes with the police and Khan's supporters camped outside. Khan told CNN the government was attempting to arrest him as a "pretext for them to get out of (holding) elections," a claim rejected by information minister Mariyam Aurangzeb. Days later, more clashes erupted when police arrived with bulldozers to clear the supporters from Khan's home, and again outside Islamabad High Court as the former leader finally complied with an order to attend court. Interior minister Rana Sanaullah told reporters that the police operation intended to "clear no-go areas" and "arrest miscreants hiding inside." Human Rights Watch accused the police of using "abusive measures" and urged all sides to show restraint. What is happening with elections? General elections are due to be held this October, but Khan has been pushing for elections months earlier. However, it's not even clear if he'll be able to contest the vote due to the push by the government to disqualify him. Disqualification will mean that Khan can't hold any parliamentary position, become involved in election campaigns, or lead his party. Khan has already been disqualified by Pakistan's Election Commission for making "false statements" regarding the sale of gifts sent to him while in office -- an offense under the country's constitution -- but it will take the courts to cement the disqualification into law. A court date is still to be set for that hearing. Yasser Kureshi, author of the book "Seeking Supremacy: The Pursuit of Judicial Power in Pakistan," says Khan's "ability to mobilize support" will "help raise the costs of any attempt to disqualify him." However, he said if Pakistan's powerful military -- led by government-appointed former spy chief Lt. Gen. Syed Asim Munir, who Khan once fired -- is determined to expel the former leader, it could pressure the judiciary to rule him out, no matter how much it inflames Khan's supporters. "If the military leadership is united against Khan and committed to disqualifying and purging him, the pressure from the military may compel enough judges to relent and disqualify Khan, should that be the consensus within the military top brass," said Kureshi, a lecturer in South Asian Studies at the University of Oxford in the United Kingdom. Qaiser Imam, president of the Islamabad Bar Association, disagreed with this statement. "Political parties, to save their politics, link themselves with certain narratives or perceptions which generally are never found correct," he told CNN. The Pakistan Armed Forces has often been blamed for meddling in the democratic process to maintain its authority, but in a statement last November outgoing army chief, Gen. Qamar Javed Bajwa, said a decision had been made in February that the military would not interfere in politics. The army has previously rejected Khan's claims it had anything to do with purported attempts on his life. Legal maneuvers Some say the government's recent actions have added to perceptions that it's trying to stack the legal cards against Khan. This week, the government introduced a bill to limit the power of the Chief Justice, who had agreed to hear a claim by the PTI against a move to delay an important by-election in Punjab, Pakistan's most populated province, and one considered a marker for the party most likely to win national leadership. It had been due to be held on April 30, but Pakistan's Election Commission pushed it to October 8, citing security concerns. In a briefing to international media last Friday, Pakistan's Defense Minister Khawaja Asif said the security and economic situation had deteriorated in the past two months, and it was more cost effective to hold the vote at the same time as the general election. The decision was immediately condemned by Khan as an act that "violated the constitution." Lodhi, the former ambassador, has criticized the delay, tweeting that a security threat had been "invoked to justify whatever is politically expedient." The PTI took the matter to the Supreme Court, where it's still being heard. Some have accused Khan of also trying to manipulate the court system in his favor. Kureshi said the judiciary is fragmented, allowing Khan to "venue-shop" -- taking charges against him from one judge to seek a more sympathetic hearing with another. "At this time it seems that even the Supreme Court itself is split on how to deal with Imran Khan, which helps him maneuver within this fragmented institutional landscape," Kureshi said. What happens now? The increasing acrimony at the highest level of politics shows no sign of ending -- and in fact could prolong the uncertainty for Pakistan's long-suffering people. Khan is adamant the current government wants him dead without offering much tangible evidence. And in comments made to local media on Sunday, Sanaullah said the government once viewed Khan as a political opponent but now sees him as the "enemy." "(Khan) has in a straightforward way brought this country's politics to a point where either only one can exist, either him or us. If we feel our existence is being negated, then we will go to whatever lengths needed and, in that situation, we will not see what is democratic or undemocratic, what is right and what is wrong," he added. PTI spokesman Fawad Chaudhry said the comments were "offensive" and threatened to take legal action. "The statement ... goes against all norms of civilized world," he said. Ahmed Bilal Mehboob, the director the Pakistan Institute of Legislative Development and Transparency, says Khan's popularity gave him "the power to cripple the country," should he push supporters to show their anger in the street. However, Mehboob said Khan's repeated attempts to call for an early election could create even more instability by provoking the government to impose article 232 of the constitution. That would place the country under a state of emergency, delaying elections for a year. And that would not be welcomed by a weary public already tired of living in uncertain times. Correction: This story has been updated to correct the name of Gen. Qamar Javed Bajwa, the former army chief.