Our live coverage for the day has ended. Follow the latest Ukraine news here or read through the updates below. Wimbledon will accept entries from Russian and Belarusian players for this year's tournament if they agree to compete as neutral athletes and comply with "appropriate conditions," organizers announced Friday in a statement. Russians and Belarusians were banned from competing at Wimbledon in 2022 following Russia's invasion of Ukraine. Wimbledon is the third grand slam event in the calendar year. The ban resulted in the men's and women's professional tours -- the ATP and WTA -- and the International Tennis Federation (ITF) stripping Wimbledon of its ranking points. Entry conditions for this year's event, one of tennis' four majors, include prohibiting "expressions of support for Russia's invasion of Ukraine," while players who receive funding from the Russian or Belarusian state will not be allowed to compete, including those receiving sponsorship from companies operated or controlled by them. President Joe Biden called for the release of arrested Wall Street Journal reporter Evan Gershkovich on Friday — his first public comments on the matter since Gershkovich was accused of espionage by Russian authorities Thursday. Vice President Kamala Harris added to the conversation, saying Friday she is “deeply concerned” about Gershkovich. The Biden Administration's calls are among others urging Russia to also free him. The leaders of more than 30 news organizations around the world signed a letter Thursday to the Russian ambassador to the US demanding Gershkovich's release. If you're just now catching up, here's what you should know: Belarus and nuclear weapons: Senior Ukrainian presidential adviser Mykhailo Podolyak rejected Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko’s calls for an immediate ceasefire while Russian forces continue to occupy Ukrainian territory. On Friday, Lukashenko accused the West of "preparing to invade" Belarus from Poland, and welcomed Moscow’s move to station Russian tactical nuclear warheads in Belarus, saying the weapons are needed to safeguard the country. Lukashenko said he has intensified talks with Russian President Vladimir Putin about deploying both tactical and strategic – more powerful – nuclear weapons to deal with threats from Ukraine’s western allies who he claims are planning a coup against him. Russia's new foreign policy doctrine: Russian President Vladimir Putin on Friday listed the United States as the main security threat to Russia and "the just development of mankind" in a decree on a new version of the Russian Foreign Policy Concept. Aid to Ukraine: The International Monetary Fund board has approved a new 48-month extended arrangement of about $15.6 billion for Ukraine, the fund said in a statement Friday. The loan is part of a support package for Ukraine that totals $115 billion and allows for the immediate disbursement of around $2.7 billion. And while the US is not providing Ukraine with long-range ATACMS missiles, it instead is looking at other options to give the Ukrainian military a longer reach on the battlefield, according to Joint Chiefs Chair Gen. Mark Milley.  ##Catch Up## The family of Paul Whelan, an American the US says is wrongfully detained in Russia, is concerned for his well-being after he didn't make his usual daily call to his parents, his brother told CNN’s Paula Newton Friday. "Normally our parents are able to speak to him on an almost daily basis. He (is) allowed a 15-minute phone call once a day, and so he speaks to our parents just to stay up to date on what's going on at home and share what's going on with him and if he has any problems. He was unable to call yesterday; that's unexpected. He was supposed to be able to speak to the US embassy consular staff yesterday, and that didn't happen, either. So we're a little bit concerned that there may be something else going on," David Whelan told CNN. On the detention of another American: The Whelan family issued a statement Thursday, saying they were sorry to hear about the arrest of American journalist Evan Gershkovich, who works for the Wall Street Journal. David Whelan spoke out against a Wall Street Journal editorial calling for retaliation for the reporter's arrest. "I think retaliation is wrong, and I was very disappointed to see the Wall Street Journal's editorial board suggest that we should expel the Russian ambassador. The one thing you shouldn't do, is do anything that would cause the Russians to reduce the consular support," he said. He also pointed to a similarity between his brother's case and Gershkovich's arrest, saying the two are part of Russia’s attempt to get a concession from the US. "Having two cases that are identical espionage charges that are obviously bogus to American citizens. It might make it easier," he said. "To the extent that they're using this for extortion — to get a concession from the US government — that may make it simpler," Whelan added. He said he worries the US is struggling to deter these types of detentions. The US is not providing Ukraine with long-range ATACMS missiles, but is instead looking at other options to give the Ukrainian military a longer reach on the battlefield, according to Joint Chiefs Chair Gen. Mark Milley.  The top US general said the US has “relatively few” ATACMS, and the military has to maintain its own levels of critical weapons in its inventories. But the military is considering other possibilities, Milley said in an interview with Defense One on Friday.   “The range of the ATACMS is longer, but there’s other systems that can get to that range,” Milley said. “There’s UAVs, for example, that could do it. The Brits have a couple systems. So those are some things we’re looking at to give them a little bit more legs.” “Right now, we’re not providing the ATACMS,” Milley said. He noted it’s a policy decision, and he would not take anything on or off the table for the future. The ATACMS missile has a range of approximately 200 miles, far greater than any system the US has provided to Ukraine so far.  In terms of weapons inventory, the US is also reviewing its estimates for how much munitions the military would need in a great power war after seeing how quickly Ukrainians are using up munitions, Milley said. The US currently has “sufficient ammunition in our inventory today to do what we need to do,” he said, but the defense industrial base will be working to expand its capacity over several years. “[I]f you're involved in a significant great power war,” Milley said, “it's best not to underestimate how much munitions you're going to need.” The International Monetary Fund board has approved a new 48-month extended arrangement of about $15.6 billion for Ukraine, the fund said in a statement Friday. The loan is part of a support package for Ukraine that totals $115 billion and allows for the immediate disbursement of around $2.7 billion. "The overarching goals of the authorities’ program are to sustain economic and financial stability at a time of exceptionally high uncertainty, restore debt sustainability on a forward-looking basis in both a baseline and downside scenario, and promote reforms that support Ukraine’s recovery on the path toward EU accession in the post-war period," according to the statement. “The program, together with financing assurances from the G7, EU and other donors, is designed to solve Ukraine’s balance of payment problem and restore medium term external viability.” Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky thanked the IMF, including Managing Director Kristalina Georgieva, for approving the loan to Kyiv. “Together we support the [Ukrainian] economy. And we are moving forward to victory,” he said in a tweet. IMF First Deputy Managing Director Gita Gopinath complimented Ukrainian authorities for their work managing the country’s finances despite the "devastating economic and social impact" of Russia's full-scale invasion.  “Activity contracted sharply last year, a large swathe of the country’s capital stock has been destroyed, and poverty is on the rise,” Gopinath said. “The authorities have nevertheless managed to maintain overall macroeconomic and financial stability, thanks to skillful policymaking and substantial external support.” Gopinath admitted the risks of the program were “exceptionally high,” but she said Ukraine’s track record was a mitigating factor.  “The authorities’ track record of undertaking ambitious policies when warranted, their readiness to undertake contingency measures, and the frequent reviews in the first phase of the program are risk mitigating factors,” she said. “The program has been appropriately designed to resolve Ukraine’s balance of payments problem and restore medium-term external viability in both a baseline and downside scenario.” Russia’s stated plan to place nuclear weapons in Belarus is proof that talks between Russian President Vladimir Putin and his Chinese counterpart Xi Jinping earlier this month failed, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said Friday. Though China had appeared to position itself as a peace broker between Russia and Ukraine in the weeks leading up to Xi’s three-day state visit to Moscow, the meetings between the two leaders did not yield a meaningful breakthrough on resolving the conflict. “The signal that Russia wants to place their nuclear weapons in Belarus tells me that the meeting with China was unsuccessful, it’s failed,” Zelensky told reporters during a visit to Bucha. The Ukrainian president also said Belarusian strongman Alexander Lukashenko has “lost any importance,” claiming he “doesn’t decide anything about what kind of weapons are based in his country.” Some background: Putin announced last week that Moscow will construct a storage facility for tactical nuclear weapons in Belarus, completing it by the start of July. Lukashenko welcomed the move in a national address Friday, adding that Russia could also station strategic nuclear weapons in his country. The mentioning of strategic nukes, which can decimate entire cities, is an escalation in rhetoric from Lukashenko. Russia has not publicly announced any plans to send strategic nuclear weapons to Belarus. Global reaction: While there is no guarantee Putin will follow through on his plans for Belarus, any nuclear signaling by Putin causes concern in the West. Ukraine, NATO and the European Union's top diplomat have condemned the plan. The US has downplayed the move, saying there are no indications Russia will use nuclear weapons. The nuclear announcement comes as Putin faces mounting problems elsewhere. Read CNN analysis on the decision here. CNN's Andrew Carey, Ivana Kottasová, Lindsay Isaac and Anna Chernova contributed to this report. Commander in Chief of Ukraine’s Armed Forces Gen. Valerii Zaluzhnyi said Russia’s actions during the occupation of Bucha will always be remembered in Ukraine’s “national memory.” “Bucha. A suburb of the capital. An important hub of the entire Kyiv defense area. A symbol of Ukrainian resistance,” Ukraine’s top general wrote on Facebook on the one-year anniversary of Bucha being taken back from Russian troops. “33 days of occupation, more than 9 thousand recorded Russian war crimes.” “Their cruelty is forever etched in the national memory,” Zaluzhnyi added.  The general said Ukraine’s efforts to liberate the Kyiv suburb showed the world that the country would not give up. “The joint actions of the Defense Forces, volunteers, and locals have succeeded in driving out the enemy,” he said. “The de-occupation of the Kyiv region has demonstrated to the world that Ukrainians will not give up a single piece of their land.” “We remember the Heroes who laid down their lives for the sake of Ukraine's future,” he added. US President Joe Biden's administration is still working to secure a meeting with detained American journalist Evan Gershkovich, who is being held in Russia's Lefortovo prison in Moscow. US officials have described Russia's espionage allegations against the journalist as "ridiculous" and "absolutely ludicrous." "We have not been able to achieve consular access and nobody from our embassy has been able to meet with him," John Kirby, a spokesperson for the US National Security Council, told CNN's Bianna Golodryga on Friday. "We are continuing to work on that, of course, and will until we can get that consular access to ascertain for ourselves how he's doing." The US has previously warned US citizens against traveling to Russia. Kirby emphasized Friday that those recommendations apply even to journalists working in the country. "This is not the time for Americans to be in Russia. If you're in Russia now — whether it's on business or leisure, whatever kind of travel — you need to leave now," Kirby said. "This is not a good place for you to be in Russia, even if you are a working journalist. Russia is a hostile environment for American citizens right now. And it's time to go if you're there." ##WSJ Journalist## The leaders of more than 30 news organizations around the world signed a letter Thursday to the Russian ambassador to the US, Anatoly Antonov, demanding the release of imprisoned Wall Street Journal reporter Evan Gershkovich. "Gershkovich is a journalist, not a spy, and should be released immediately and without conditions," said the letter, spearheaded by the Committee to Protect Journalists, which was made public Friday. The letter was signed by the leaders of the Associated Press, The New York Times, The Washington Post, BBC, TIME, Euronews, Bloomberg News, Sky News, The New Yorker, and The Economist, among many others. "Gershkovich’s unwarranted and unjust arrest is a significant escalation in your government’s anti-press actions," the letter said. "Russia is sending the message that journalism within your borders is criminalized and that foreign correspondents seeking to report from Russia do not enjoy the benefits of the rule of law." A representative for the Committee to Protect Journalists told CNN that the group had not received a response by Friday afternoon ET. Gershkovich was arrested in Russia on suspicion of espionage, according to Russian authorities, the first time a US journalist has been detained on accusations by Moscow of spying since the Cold War. In a Thursday statement, The Wall Street Journal said it “vehemently denies the allegations from the FSB and seeks the immediate release of our trusted and dedicated reporter.” Almar Latour, the CEO of Dow Jones, which publishes The Wall Street Journal, condemned Russia’s arrest of Gershkovich in a memo to staffers Thursday, saying the company is working “around the clock” to secure his release. “This is an incredibly disturbing development,” Latour said in a memo to staff obtained by CNN. ##WSJ Journalist## Given its close ties with Moscow, China could be one of the only countries that can have a “game-changer effect” on the war in Ukraine, a source from the French presidency told journalists during a briefing Friday. The source spoke on the condition of anonymity, citing professional norms, ahead of French President Emmanuel Macron’s visit to China. “It’s obvious that China is one of the few countries on Earth — maybe the only country in the world — to have a ‘game-changer’ effect on the conflict, for both sides,” the source said. Macron’s upcoming visit to China will be a crucial opportunity for France and China to reconnect at the highest level after three years of China sealing itself off due to its strict zero-Covid policy, according to the source. Macron will arrive in Beijing on Wednesday to start his visit, one day later than previously announced, and will also visit the southern city of Guangzhou before leaving China on April 8. With meetings scheduled with Chinese President Xi Jinping and Premier Li Qiang, Macron aims to “find a space so that we can try initiatives that are useful to the Ukrainian people and then to find a way to identify solutions to end this war in the medium term,” the source said. He is also expected to bring up cooperation between the European Union and China, as EU Commission President Ursula von der Leyen will accompany him on the visit.  Von der Leyen will be in Paris on Monday to meet with Macron and prepare for the visit, according to the Élysée source.  Russian President Vladimir Putin on Friday signed a decree on a new version of the Russian Foreign Policy Concept, which lists the US as the main security threat to Russia and "the just development of mankind."  "Moscow considers Washington's course as the main source of risks for its own and international security, for peace and the just development of mankind as a whole," the document read.  "The new concept of foreign policy provides for the possibility of symmetrical and asymmetric measures in response to unfriendly actions against the Russian Federation," Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said after presenting Putin with the updated doctrine.  The 42-page document outlines the main objectives of Moscow’s foreign policy, among which are the strengthening of the military cooperation with allies and elimination of US dominance in world affairs. The document made no direct mention of Ukraine even as Russia continues its full-scale invasion of the country, but did say that "Moscow is stepping up the process of registration within the framework of international law of its state border and jurisdiction over the territories it controls."  "The main goal in the near abroad is to turn the region into a zone of peace, good neighborliness and prosperity," it continued. According to the document, Moscow also sees "risks of aggravating conflicts involving large countries, as well as their escalation into a local or global war. The factor of strength increasingly determines relations between countries." Russia will also focus on deepening ties with India and China as well as increasing cooperation with Latin American countries.  Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky visited the now famous street in Bucha where his country’s forces destroyed a column of Russian armored vehicles that were charging toward Ukraine's capital of Kyiv. Zelensky posted a video on his official Telegram account recounting the fighting on February 27, 2022, in Bucha. The Ukrainian victory of destroying the Russian vehicles was short-lived, as it gave way to a brutal month-long occupation in the town. Friday marks one year since Ukrainian forces liberated Bucha, ending that occupation, and Zelensky reflected on the fighting there during his visit. The president's video shows the street shortly after it was liberated last year, flanked by damaged houses and littered with destroyed Russian military vehicles. More than 200 buildings had been damaged in the town, Zelensky said in his post. CNN was among the first media outlets to gain access and visit the Kyiv suburb at this time, documenting the horrors there. The video then shows Zelensky and Ukrainian leaders walking the street as it is now — clean, with refurbished houses.  More on Zelensky's visit: The Ukrainian president spoke at a ceremony marking the anniversary of Bucha's liberation and toured the town speaking to residents. “Humanity must remember every Ukrainian city, every street, whose heroism and resilience give the future to all who value life,” Zelensky said. “I talked to a resident of one of the houses, 85-year-old Hryhorii Zamohylnyi. He stayed in his house during the fighting and the occupation of Bucha,” Zelensky wrote on Telegram. In the video, the Ukrainian president is shown speaking to an elderly couple. “Little by little. Thank you so much for such a work, for returning (Bucha),” the woman says. “Let the God give you health, let Ukraine prosper and flourish,” the man adds. “We are so grateful, all of us Bucha residents, for the work you did here." Senior Ukrainian presidential adviser Mykhailo Podolyak has rejected Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko’s calls for an immediate ceasefire while Russian forces continue to occupy Ukrainian territory. “Any ceasefire will mean [the Russian Federation’s] right to stay in the occupied territories. This is totally inadmissible,” Podolyak said. “[Ukraine] has the right to move troops and equipment on its territory as it deems necessary.” Earlier on Friday, Lukashenko called for a freezing of “hostilities” in Ukraine, which the Kremlin rejected. “It is necessary to stop hostilities and declare a truce that prohibits both sides from moving groups of troops and from transferring weapons, ammunition, manpower, and equipment," Lukashenko said. "All stopped, frozen." The Kremlin said Moscow is aware of Lukashenko’s advice, adding it will “certainly be discussed” next week when Russian President Vladimir Putin and Lukashenko are scheduled to speak. Lukashenko also said he has intensified talks with Putin about deploying both tactical and strategic — more powerful — nuclear weapons to deal with threats from Ukraine’s Western allies, who he claims are planning a coup against him. Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko accused the West of "preparing to invade" Belarus from Poland, and welcomed Moscow’s move to station Russian tactical nuclear warheads in Belarus, saying the weapons are needed to safeguard the country. In an address to the nation Friday, Lukashenko said he has intensified talks with Russian President Vladimir Putin about deploying both tactical and strategic – more powerful - nuclear weapons to deal with threats from Ukraine’s western allies who he claims are planning a coup against him. “If necessary, not only tactical but also strategic nuclear weapons will be introduced into Belarus,” he is quoted as saying by state media BELGA in his first comments since Putin announced plans to complete the construction of a special storage facility for tactical nuclear weapons in Belarus by the beginning of July.  He confirmed that Moscow has already transferred an Iskander short-range missile system, a device which can be fitted with nuclear or conventional warheads, to Belarus. “Our converted planes can also carry a nuclear warhead. You heard from the President of Russia about joint plans to create the appropriate infrastructure on the territory of Belarus. I just want to clarify: the entire infrastructure has been created and is ready,” he said.   Lukashenko stressed that Minsk and Moscow would make “every effort and use the means to ensure their sovereignty and independence,” against Poland and its “zealous” western neighbors who he accused of building up the “formation of certain regiments, banners, legions,” for a “subsequent coup in Belarus.” “At the same time, the transfer of NATO troops to the east is proceeding at an accelerated pace. The grouping of the bloc in Poland and the Baltic countries alone today has more than 21,000 military personnel, 250 tanks, almost 500 armored vehicles, about 150 aircraft and helicopters. And this whole armada is defiantly training near the borders of Belarus and Russia. The question is the same: why?" he said. In response, the Belarusian military has been instructed to “immediately restore sites” in Belarus where intercontinental ballistic missile systems with nuclear warheads were previously located. "If necessary, Putin and I will decide and introduce strategic nuclear weapons here. And they must understand this, those who are trying to blow us up abroad today from inside and outside. We will stop at nothing, protecting our countries, our states and their peoples," the Belarusian leader said, adding that he is “confident that these measures” will deter “overseas hawks and their satellites for a long time.” President Biden was asked by CNN what his message to Russia is following the detainment of Wall Street Journal reporter Evan Gershkovich. "Let him go," the president said as he departed the White House this morning. This is the first time Biden has publicly commented on the matter since Gershkovich was accused of espionage by Russian authorities Thursday. Asked later by another reporter if the US would expel Russian diplomats or journalists over the detention of Gershkovich, Biden said, "That's not the plan right now."  Later on Friday, US Vice President Kamala Harris said she was “deeply concerned” about Gershkovich. “I will state in unequivocal terms that we will not tolerate and condemn, in fact, repression of journalists and that we are absolutely concerned about any attempt to in any way stifle freedom of the press,” Harris said in a press conference with Zambia’s President Hakainde Hichilema in Lusaka. CNN's Jasmine Wright contributed reporting to this post. ##WSJ Journalist## Ukraine will “punish every perpetrator” for the atrocities that happened in Bucha, the town just north of Kyiv where Russian forces allegedly committed war crimes last year, President Volodymyr Zelensky said. Friday marks exactly one year since Bucha was liberated, which Ukrainian Prosecutor General Andrii Kostin recalls, "was the first time we all saw evidence of the unprecedented scale of the enemy's atrocities." Here are the other headlines: Russia strikes Zaporizhzhia and Kharkiv: Multiple rocket attacks hit the southeastern Ukrainian city of Zaporizhzhia on Friday. There were no casualties but several buildings were damaged. In addition, three people were injured further north after Russia fired nine missiles at Kharkiv, Ukraine's second-largest city on Thursday night. Finland NATO accession imminent: Finland will formally join NATO in the “coming days,” Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg said Friday. The Turkish Parliament voted unanimously in favor of Finland’s membership on Thursday, clearing the last hurdle in the accession process. Lukashenko fires warning to West: Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko called for a freezing of “hostilities” in Ukraine, and warned that Russia would have to use the full force of its military if the West were attempt to use a hypothetical pause in the war to encroach on its territory. Ukraine boycotts Olympic qualifying: Ukraine has decided to boycott Olympic qualifying events in which Russians are competing for the Paris 2024 Games. It comes after the International Olympic Committee outlined new guidelines that would allow Russian and Belarusian athletes to compete as neutrals. Russia's spring draft isn't mobilization: Russia's armed forces are not planning for a second wave of mobilization and an upcoming military draft is part of a routine conscription program, a Russian official announced Friday. Slovenian PM in Kyiv: Slovenia’s Prime Minister Robert Golob has met with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky. Golob told Zelensky that Slovenia will contribute to the post-war recovery of Ukraine, specifically the liberated city of Izium in the northeastern Kharkiv region. ##Catch Up## The Kremlin has ruled out a truce in Ukraine proposed by Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko on Friday. “In the context of Ukraine, nothing changes. The special military operation continues because at the moment it is the only way to achieve the goals that our country faces,” Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said in regular call with journalists. Peskov said Moscow is aware of Lukashenko’s advice and said it will “certainly be discussed” next week, when Russian President Vladimir Putin and Lukashenko speak during a meeting of the Supreme State Council of the Union State. Earlier Friday, Lukashenko called for a freezing of “hostilities” in Ukraine. “It is necessary to stop hostilities and declare a truce that prohibits both sides from moving groups of troops and from transferring weapons, ammunition, manpower, and equipment," Lukashenko said. "All stopped, frozen." Accredited foreign journalists can continue to work in Russia, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said Friday, following the arrest of Evan Gershkovich, a reporter for the Wall Street Journal. His comments came in response to a question regarding a Thursday article from the Editorial Board of the Wall Street Journal, which says: “The Biden Administration will have to consider diplomatic and political escalation." “Expelling Russia’s ambassador to the U.S., as well as all Russian journalists working here, would be the minimum to expect. The U.S. government’s first duty is to protect its citizens, and too many governments now believe they can arrest and imprison Americans with impunity,” it said. Peskov was asked “how likely” it is that Russian journalists and Russia’s ambassador will be expelled from the United States. “All foreign journalists who have valid accreditation here can and continue their journalistic activities in our country. They don't face any restrictions and work fine,” Peskov replied. “In this case, we are talking about espionage activities under the guise of journalistic activities. Since this journalist was caught red-handed, this situation is obvious,” he added. The WSJ has categorically rejected those allegations, saying in a statement Thursday that it “vehemently denies the allegations from the FSB and seeks the immediate release of our trusted and dedicated reporter.” Peskov continued: “In this regard, to demand the expulsion of all Russian journalists ... Well, the newspaper can do it, but this should not be the case. There is simply no reason for this. If there are any violations of the law, going beyond the scope of activities provided for by law, yes. But it would be absurd and wrong to restrict the rights of conscientious journalists.” He once again reiterated he was unable to expand his “red-handed” accusation, saying: “We do not have detailed information, it is classified. The FSB is handling this.” The White House has called the Russian espionage charge "ridiculous." Slovenia’s Prime Minister Robert Golob has met with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky in Kyiv on Friday.  Golob told Zelensky that Slovenia will contribute to the post-war recovery of Ukraine, specifically the liberated city of Izium in the northeastern Kharkiv region, according to the Slovenian government's Twitter account. The Slovenian leader also discussed Ukraine’s path to joining the European Union and the NATO military alliance during a meeting with Ukrainian Prime Minister Denys Shmyhal, according to the Twitter account. Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko called for a freezing of “hostilities” in Ukraine, and warned that Russia would have to use the full force of its military if the West were attempt to use a hypothetical pause in the war to encroach on its territory.  “It is necessary to stop hostilities and declare a truce that prohibits both sides from moving groups of troops and from transferring weapons, ammunition, manpower, and equipment, Lukashenko said in an address to the nation Friday. "All stopped, frozen." But he warned Moscow would be obliged to use the “full power of its military-industrial complex and the army to prevent the escalation of the conflict – phosphorus ammunition, non-depleted uranium, and enriched uranium – everything must go into action if there is deception and even the slightest movement across the border of Ukraine is noticed.” Lukashenko is a key ally of Russian President Vladimir Putin and his comments come amid heightened tensions in the region, with Russia amassing troops along the Belarus-Ukraine border in recent weeks. The United States and its allies have expressed concern over the potential for further escalation in the conflict.  Finland will formally join NATO in the “coming days,” Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg said Friday after lawmakers in Turkey – the last remaining hold-out among current members – approved its membership. “All 30 NATO Allies have now ratified the accession protocol,” Stoltenberg said in a video posted to Twitter.  Finland will bring a lot to our Alliance,” he added.  Stoltenberg also sounded an optimistic note on Sweden’s chances of joining the alliance. Sweden and Finland submitted a joint application to NATO shortly after Russia's invasion of Ukraine. “All Allies agree that a rapid conclusion of the ratification process for Sweden will be in everyone’s interest," he tweeted. "I look forward to also welcoming Sweden as a full member of the NATO family as soon as possible.” However Turkey has not indicated whether it wil