Britain's King Charles III and his wife Camilla, the Queen Consort, attend a reception in Hamburg, Germany, on Friday, March 31. Hamburg was the last stop on their visit to Germany. The King and Queen Consort make a toast at their final reception in Hamburg. German President Frank-Walter Steinmeier, left, and the King speak with Hamburg Mayor Peter Tschentscher as they tour Hamburg's harbor on Friday. The Queen Consort talks to children during a visit to the Rudolf Ross Grundschule School in Hamburg. The King greets people Friday outside Hamburg's City Hall. The King waves from a balcony at Hamburg's City Hall. Crowds gather outside Hamburg's City Hall ahead of the King's visit. The King and Steinmeier lay wreaths at a Hamburg church memorial dedicated to the victims of allied bombings during World War II. The King visits the St. Nikolai Memorial Church in Hamburg. The King and Queen Consort board a train headed from Berlin to Hamburg on Friday. The King and Steinmeier try cheese-making during a visit to Brodowin, Germany, on Thursday. People in Brodowin await the arrival of the King on Thursday. The King greets soldiers during his visit to the Joint Military Unit at Finowfurt, Germany, on Thursday. The Queen Consort visits Refugio Berlin and speaks with Diana Strassheim and baby Kuno on Thursday. The King is joined by Berlin Mayor Franziska Giffey as he visits a refugee center supporting displaced Ukrainians. The King, front center, receives applause after delivering a speech at the Bundestag, Germany's parliament, on Thursday. He said he was proud to be in Berlin to "renew the special bond of friendship between our two countries," and he said the friendship between the two nations "meant so much to my beloved mother," who spoke often of her visits to the country. German Chancellor Olaf Scholz welcomes the King to the Chancellery on Thursday. The King speaks to guests at a state banquet that was held at the Bellevue Palace in Berlin on Wednesday. Former German Chancellor Angela Merkel, left, and the King attend the state banquet on Wednesday. The King and Camilla, the Queen Consort, are flanked by Steinmeier and his wife, Elke Budenbender, at the state banquet on Wednesday. The King walks with Steinmeier after planting a tree at Bellevue Palace. The King and Steinmeier plant a manna ash tree in memory of the King's late mother, Queen Elizabeth II. The King attends a green-energy reception at Bellevue Palace. The King and Camilla, the Queen Consort, sign a guest book Wednesday at the palace. The King and Steinmeier inspect a guard of honor during a ceremonial welcome at Berlin's Brandenburg Gate. The King shakes hands with well-wishers at Brandenburg Gate. The King and the Queen Consort are joined by Steinmeier and Budenbender at Wednesday's welcoming ceremony. The King shakes hands after arriving at Berlin Brandenburg Airport. Charles and Camilla arrive in Germany on Wednesday. A German jet escorts the plane of Charles and Camilla on their way to Germany. People in Berlin wait to greet the King and Queen Consort. A man fastens a red carpet in front of the Brandenburg Gate.