In the low-lying river deltas of Bangladesh, annual monsoons and tidal swells leave millions of people vulnerable to flooding. To help them, Dhaka-based architect Marina Tabassum has created a two-story "tiny home," called Khudi Bari, which is light and portable. It's the latest of the award-winning architect's projects -- look through the gallery to see more of her stunning work. Tabassum established her eponymous architecture firm in 2005, and her first commission was the Bait Ur Rouf Mosque (pictured), which she said has a "special place in her heart," as it was commissioned by Tabassum's grandmother, Sufia Khatun. Khatun was given 20 acres of land as part of a resettlement initiative after she fled India in 1947 with her family, and in 2006, wanted to give back to the community. While distinctly modern in its minimalist style and form, the mosque uses terracotta brick as its principal material, drawing on a centuries-old Bengali architectural tradition. Using natural ventilation such as skylights and gaps in the brick walls to keep cool in the sweltering summer months, the mosque was recognized internationally for its innovative design and won the Aga Khan Award in 2016. Steering clear of typical mosque design features, such as domes and minarets, Tabassum instead uses light as ornamentation in the Bait Ur Rouf Mosque: a constellation of holes in the ceiling creates an invisible chandelier, casting a kaleidoscope of light across the floor from April to September. With its red brick exterior, the Alfadanga Mosque bears many similarities to the Bait Ur Rouf Mosque. Situated next to a 250-year-old home in Faridpur district, around 90 kilometers (56 miles) west of Dhaka, the mosque was designed to blend into its historic surroundings. Light plays an important role in the prayer halls of the Alfadanga Mosque, again acting as decoration in an otherwise simple interior. The mosque was commissioned by owners of the neighboring Maulovi Bari home, which has been in their family for generations. Renovations to restore the house began in 2018, and construction on the mosque began in 2021. This 12-story residential building, called Comfort Reverie, was designed in 2006 and completed in 2011. Located in Banani, on the main road in Dhaka's bustling business district, the building's brick facade has a timeless look, while the angular "fins" create a modernist aesthetic. The fins are more than just decorative -- these openings face east and west, and are designed to channel air, as well as offer shade against the scorching summer sun. "I always focus on passive climate control," said Tabassum. "A building should not depend on artificial means of climate control. It should not be too dependent on technology -- it should be able to operate on its own." Designed in collaboration with her former business partner and fellow award-winning architect Kashef Mahboob Chowdhury, the Museum of Independence and Independence Monument sits in the grounds of a former Mogul-era garden, turned colonial horse racing track, and then, a political meeting ground in the 1970s. The design was part of a national competition, which Tabassum and Chowdhury's firm, URBANA, won in 1997, although construction of the monument wasn't finished until 2013. The subterranean museum leaves space at ground level for a large fountain and public park around the monument, a tower of light comprised of stacked glass panes. Tabassum's latest project, Khudi Bari, is designed to help low-income communities impacted by flooding. They are low-cost and easy to assemble, with the second floor 2 meters (6 feet) from the ground. "You can move your family and your belongings to the upper level so that you can save yourself," said Tabassum. Tabassum has also adapted the Khudi Bari structure to create larger community spaces at the Rohingya refugee camp at Cox's Bazaar in southeastern Bangladesh. Refugee camps are not allowed permanent structures with foundations, so the Khudi Bari offers a homely, but temporary, alternative. "Everybody has a right to good architecture," said Tabassum.