Abby Grossberg, the former Fox News producer who accused the right-wing network of pressuring her into giving misleading testimony in the Dominion defamation case, told NBC News Thursday in her first TV interview that she was "bullied, intimidated and coerced" into protecting the right-wing network to keep her job. "It felt awful. I mean it felt terrible because I knew that I was bullied, intimidated, and coerced into saying that just to keep my job and stay at the company," Grossberg told NBC. Asked why she did that, Grossberg said "Because I made the decision to keep my job so that I can keep paying my bills. It seemed like the safer decision for me at the time." Her latest comments echo what she said last week in an interview with CNN's Oliver Darcy, where she said she filed the lawsuit to protect her career and "expose the lies and deceit" that she says is rampant at the right-wing network. Fox News contests all of her allegations, and said in a prior statement that, "the assertion that Ms. Grossberg was coached or intimidated into being dishonest during her Dominion deposition is patently false." Fox News also denies wrongdoing in the underlying Dominion case, and says it didn't defame anyone. Last week, Grossberg filed explosive lawsuits in New York and Delaware accusing Fox News lawyers of pressuring her into providing misleading testimony in the Dominion case -- testimony that would protect the network and its top talent. Since filing the lawsuit, she submitted new sworn testimony in the Dominion defamation case that undermines some of Fox's defenses. She also claimed in her lawsuit that she had been subjected to a toxic and sexist work environment while at Fox News. The network has vehemently pushed back against these allegations. After filing the lawsuit, Grossberg was fired from Fox News. The right-wing network said in a statement that she violated corporate rules improperly exposed legally privileged information in her lawsuit. Alleges rampant workplace sexism During Thursday's interview, Grossberg said that she experienced harassment so severe that she thought about killing herself. "I reached a breaking point where the harassment was so bad that I called a crisis line," Grossberg told NBC News. "I thought I could just walk in front of a car and I wouldn't have to go to work tomorrow." Describing the allegedly toxic workplace at the right-wing network, Grossberg said: "Women were objectified. It was a game. It was a sport. Female politicians who came on the show were mocked. There were debates about who they'd rather sleep with. C-word all the time." A Fox News spokesperson didn't offer any comment when asked about Grossberg's mention of suicide. But the spokesperson denied Grossberg's claims of workplace misogyny, saying her lawsuit was "riddled with false allegations against the network and our employees." The spokesperson also noted that women are currently serving as the CEO of Fox News Media and the presidents of two of its networks. Fox News is no stranger to claims of workplace sexism. Fox News founder Roger Ailes, former primetime star host Bill O'Reilly and other men were forced out amid sexual harassment allegations, and the network has paid tens of millions to settle related lawsuits.