Gobi Desert, Mongolia: Mongolia's dramatic landscapes have long captivated travelers looking for unique experiences. With the government declaring 2023 through 2025 the "Years to Visit Mongolia," citizens from 34 new countries can now visit the country visa-free through the end of 2025. A new airport: The new Chinggis Khaan International Airport opened near capital Ulaanbaatar in 2021, offering state-of-the-art facilities and more scheduled flights. Gengihs Khan Square: Though many travelers are keen to take in the country's beautiful natural scenery, there's much to experience in the capital, Ulaanbaatar. New attractions include the Chinggis Khaan Museum, which offers a fresh look at Mongolia's tumultuous history. Naadam Festival: A wrestler is thrown to the ground by his opponent during the annual Naadamm festival in Ulaanbaatar. The famed event is held every July to celebrate the anniversary of Genghis Khan's march to world conquest. The sports festival, which turned 100 in 2022, features traditional Mongolian events including wrestling, archery and horse racing. Spirit of Gobi: The Spirit of Gobi music festival is one of several major events happening in Mongolia this summer. Other exciting festivals worth checking out include Playtime, the INTRO Electronic Music Festival and the Kharkhorum 360 Visual Art & Music Experience. Archery: Mounted archery is seeing a resurgence in Mongolia thanks to the Namnaa archery academy. In the summer months, the academy puts on weekly shows for interested spectators and offers day-long training sessions. Ancient calligraphy: Mongol bichig, a traditional Mongolian script written from top to bottom and read from left to right, has also seen a resurgence in recent years. Arkhangai province: Scenes like this await visitors to Mongolia's Arkhangai province. Pictured is a yurt nomad camp in the steppe. Golden eagle hunting: A Kazakh man lets his eagle loose to hunt in the Altai mountains. Winter in Mongolia: With few crowds, lower hotel rates and the chance to see one of the largest freshwater lakes in the world completely frozen over, winter in Mongolia is a frosty but fun experience. Where to stay: Nestled in the heart of Selenge province on the Yeruu River, Yeruu Lodge features a handful of fully kitted out yurts for guests.