We've wrapped up our live coverage for the day. You can read more about Russia's invasion of Ukraine here, or scroll through the updates below. Local monitoring groups reported two explosions in the southern Ukrainian city of Zaporizhzhia just after midnight local time Friday (5 p.m. ET Thursday). As sirens blared in the city, the Ukrainian Secretary of the Zaporizhzhia City Council Anatolii Kurtiev urged residents on Telegram to immediately head to shelters and stay there. The head of a Russian-installed governing council in occupied parts of the Zaporizhzhia region also reported explosions. “It’s loud in Zaporizhzhia!” the Russia-backed official, Vladimir Rogov, said on his Telegram channel. Rogov said “several explosions were heard in the regional center." Despite fierce criticism from many of the alliance's members over its invasion of Ukraine, Russia will assume the presidency of the United Nations Security Council Saturday as part of the position's regularly scheduled rotation of countries. In condemning Russia's assumption of the post, Ukraine’s Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba noted Saturday is April 1, and called it the worst kind of "April Fool’s Day joke." Kuleba made the remarks Thursday in a conversation hosted by the policy institute Chatham House. "The country which systematically violates all fundamental rules of international security is presiding over a body whose only mission is to safeguard and protect international security,” Kuleba said. The foreign minister downplayed Moscow's ability to wield significant power during the course of its presidency, though. “I don't think Russia will be able to change the balance inside the UN Security Council during its presidency. It will try to abuse its rights of the presidency to push its own narratives, but I doubt they will be able to secure the sufficient number of votes to make the council adopt decisions,” Kuleba continued. The foreign minister also said he expects the other members of the UNSC, both permanent and non-permanent, to “corner Russia as much as they can within existing procedures and rules during its presidency, not allow it to abuse the UNSC rules and to continue pushing the narratives which tell the truth about this war that Russia is conducting.” Why this is happening: The presidency of the Security Council is held by each member in turn for one month, following the English alphabetical order of the member states' names. The council requires consensus to adopt most decisions, regardless of which country sits at the head of its meetings. You can read more about how it functions here. Turkey’s parliament unanimously approved Finland’s accession to NATO after a vote Thursday, clearing the path for the Nordic country to become the 31st NATO member. The vote fulfills Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan’s promise to allow Finland into the defense alliance. It comes after Hungary’s parliament passed a bill Monday approving Finland’s NATO membership. The Turkish parliament vote was the last major hurdle facing Finland’s bid to join the alliance. NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg welcomed the Turkish parliament's decision Thursday. "I welcome the vote of the Grand National Assembly of #Türkiye to complete the ratification of #Finland’s accession. This will make the whole #NATO family stronger & safer," Stoltenberg said in a tweet.  Finnish President Sauli Niinistö celebrated the news, saying "Finland is now ready to join NATO." Niinistö added that he hopes neighboring country Sweden will also be able to join as soon as possible.  How we got here: Finland announced its intention to join NATO in May 2022, along with Sweden, after Russia’s invasion of Ukraine caused the two countries to abandon their long-held non-aligned status. Turkey had stalled the approval process after accusing both countries of housing Kurdish “terrorist organizations.” In late February, Stoltenberg said it appeared the diplomatic hold-up was predominantly concerning Sweden. Turkey has not yet indicated whether it will now approve Sweden’s NATO membership. More background: NATO has an open-door policy, meaning that any country can be invited to join if it expresses an interest, as long as it is able and willing to uphold the principles of the bloc's founding treaty. However, under the accession rules, any member state can veto a new country from joining. Turkey is a powerful NATO member, with the bloc's second-largest military after the US. Its location at the southeastern flank of the alliance makes it a strategically important member. It acts as a buffer between the West and a swathe of Middle Eastern nations with a history of political instability, and where Western states have major interests. The fact it joined the alliance in 1952, just three years after its founding, adds to its clout. CNN's Jennifer Deaton contributed reporting. Wall Street Journal reporter and US national Evan Gershkovich was detained in Russia on suspicion of "espionage" and placed under arrest until May 29, according to a Moscow court Thursday. It comes amid a crackdown in Russia on independent journalists and foreign news outlets in the wake of its invasion of Ukraine. The US State Department is tasked with officially determining if Americans are detained wrongfully abroad. Here's what we know so far: What happened: The Russian intelligence agency, the FSB, said Gershkovich was detained in Yekaterinburg, on the eastern side of the Ural Mountains "while trying to obtain secret information" relating to "the activities of one of the enterprises of the Russian military-industrial complex.” The Wall Street Journal, which has had a decades-long presence in Moscow, has categorically rejected those allegations. Some background: It is the first time an American journalist has been detained on accusations by Moscow of spying since the Cold War, and comes a week after US authorities arrested Sergey Vladimirovich Cherkasov, who they accused of being a Russian spy and was indicted in federal court. The Kremlin did not comment when asked if Gershkovich’s arrest was a tit-for-tat move for Cherkasov's arrest. Detentions of other Americans, including Paul Whelan, have led to lengthy and difficult negations between Washington and Moscow. Russia's response: Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov said the arrest was a "prerogative of the FSB." In a call with reporters, he added: "As far as we know, he was caught red-handed." The Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs routinely makes baseless claims about the work and motives of foreign journalists in Russia. United States' response: The US has condemned the detainment, saying it is "deeply concerned." The State Department has been directly in touch with the Russian government, White House press secretary Karine Jean-Pierre said in a statement. The US Embassy in Moscow has formally requested consular access — something officials say is a priority for Gershkovich's well-being and to collect more information. Reaction: Wall Street Journal Editor-in-Chief Emma Tucker told staff in a memo Thursday she was "very concerned" for the reporter's safety. Almar Latour — the chief executive of Dow Jones, which publishes The Wall Street Journal — said the safety of journalists is his top priority and that the company is working "around the clock" to secure Gershkovich's release. The New York Times said in a statement it is "deeply concerned” by the arrest and called for his immediate release. Headlines from the war: On the front lines: The Ukrainian military said its units repelled nearly 50 Russian assaults across the front lines in the eastern Donetsk region over the past day – but there have been far fewer missile and air strikes than normal. Russian shelling has been centered around the embattled city of Bakhmut, as well as Avdiivka and Mariinka in Donetsk, and Kupyansk in the Kharkiv region, the military said. Ukraine's training: More than 7,000 Ukrainian troops have received training by United States forces since the beginning of Russia’s invasion last year, according to the Pentagon. More than 4,000 Ukrainian soldiers will have completed combined arms training in Germany at the end of this month, the Pentagon said. Sanctions: President Vladimir Putin has conceded that Western sanctions designed to starve the Kremlin of funds for its invasion of Ukraine could deal a blow to Russia’s economy. It is a rare admission by the Russian leader, who has repeatedly insisted that his country's economy remains resilient and that sanctions have hurt Western countries by driving up inflation and energy prices. Possible human rights violations: The United States and 44 other countries in the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe invoked a special mechanism to investigate alleged human rights violations by Russia during its war in Ukraine. ##Catch Up## Russia fired at least six missiles at Kharkiv, Ukraine's second-largest city, Thursday night, according to the head of Kharkiv's regional military administration. “The shelling is coming from the direction of Belgorod,” Oleh Syniehubov said on Telegram, referring to a Russian city just across the border. “Information on casualties and destruction is being updated. Do not leave the shelters until the alarm goes off!” The European Union on Thursday condemned the Russian detention of Wall Street Journal reporter Evan Gershkovich and denounced the country's “systematic disregard” for media freedom. "Journalists must be allowed to exercise their profession freely and deserve protection. The Russian authorities demonstrate yet again their systematic disregard for media freedom,” EU’s top diplomat Josep Borrell said in a tweet. Other world leaders also are expressing concern for the arrest. It is the first time an American journalist has been detained on accusations by Moscow of spying since the Cold War. The French foreign ministry said on Thursday that Paris was “particularly worried and we have had the opportunity on several occasions to condemn the repressive attitude of the Russian authorities towards the press, whether Russian or international, present in Russia,” a spokesperson said. “We will continue to convey the message of defending press freedom and calling on the Russian authorities to respect fundamental rights, including those attached to freedom of information,” the foreign ministry spokesperson added.  ##WSJ Journalist## The Ukrainian military said its units repelled nearly 50 Russian assaults across the front lines in the eastern Donetsk region over the past day – but there have been far fewer missile and air strikes than normal. Russian shelling has been centered around the embattled city of Bakhmut, as well as Avdiivka and Mariinka in Donetsk, and Kupyansk in the Kharkiv region, the military said. “The enemy continues to assault the city of Bakhmut. However, our defenders are bravely holding the city and repelling numerous enemy attacks,” the General Staff said. Positions in the area appear to have changed very little. Accounts from units in Bakhmut also suggest that Thursday was quieter than most days. The State Border Guard Services said two of Russia's Wagner assault groups were eliminated. An unofficial Telegram account of the 46th separate airmobile brigade said that while Russian units had become more active in the city, the pressure on outlying settlements to the west and northwest had eased. The account also said that there was little coordination between Wagner mercenaries and regular forces, and claimed that a Wagner detachment in the city had been struck by Russian combat planes. Pavlo Kyrylenko, head of Donetsk region military administration, said that the front lines around Bakhmut, Chasiv Yar (northwest of Bakhmut), Avdiivka and Mariinka were still under constant shelling. In the town of Avdiivka, the situation is “really tense," Vitalii Barabash, the head of the city military administration told Ukrainian media. He said that in his opinion, "it cannot be called completely critical, especially since the Russians are now in positions that are not very favorable for them, but more favorable for us." Russian forces have put considerable effort into encircling Avdiivka, but their most recent assaults have gained no ground, according to the General Staff.  In other parts of Ukraine: The General Staff said cross-border shelling in the north persisted, with settlements in Chernihiv, Sumy and Kharkiv regions coming under attack. It said that Ukrainian forces continued to strike at concentrations of Russian troops, weapons and ammunition depots behind the front lines.  President Joe Biden's administration says the US is still investigating Russia's allegations against a detained Wall Street Journal reporter, but voiced skepticism Thursday over the Kremlin's claim he was spying in the country. White House press secretary Karine Jean-Pierre was responding to a question about whether the White House would call journalist Evan Gershkovich's plight a "hostage situation." "We have been very clear, there's — you know — there's no reason to believe that those charges are accurate, the espionage (charges)," Jean-Pierre said. Earlier, a White House spokesperson deferred to the US State Department and said officials were still assessing whether the US considers the reporter's arrest a wrongful detention. The Biden administration has, however, condemned the arrest. In response to a follow-up question, Jean-Pierre said the Kremlin detaining Americans and using them for leverage in negotiations is a familiar tactic. She also urged US residents to stay out of the country. "It is not safe for Americans right now in Russia," Jean-Pierre said. "The State Department is going to continue to reiterate that: It is not safe at this time to be in Russia or to travel in Russia," the press secretary said. ##WSJ Journalist## The United States and 44 other countries in the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) invoked a special mechanism Thursday to investigate alleged human rights violations by Russia during its war in Ukraine, “particularly with regard to the forced transfer and deportation of children by the Russian Federation.” According to the US and several European governments, Russian President Vladimir Putin's administration forcibly deported thousands of Ukrainian children to Russia, often to a network of dozens of camps where the minors underwent political reeducation.  The International Criminal Court (ICC) earlier this month issued arrest warrants for Putin and another Russian official related to the reported forced deportation. In a joint statement, the group of OSCE countries said the so-called Moscow Mechanism, which is a serious step taken to look into allegations of human rights abuses, was invoked “as we continue to have concerns regarding violations of international humanitarian law and international human rights law following Russia’s full-scale war of aggression against Ukraine." The statement noted that recent reports from OSCE’s independent expert missions confirmed the group’s shared concerns about Russia’s “violations of international humanitarian law in Ukraine, and, in particular, credible reports of forced transfer and deportation of Ukrainian civilians, including unaccompanied children.”  “Some of the violations may amount to crimes against humanity or war crimes,” the statement read.  Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba welcomed the move, saying in a tweet, “we need resolute joint actions to stop this genocidal practice, return children back to Ukraine, and ensure that perpetrators are held accountable.”  The OSCE does not have the authority to legally punish Russia if it finds evidence of war crimes and crimes against humanity, but the organization's findings can be given to other bodies that do.  Both Russia and Ukraine are members of the 57-nation OSCE.  The US Embassy in Moscow has requested official notification of the arrest of Wall Street Journal reporter Evan Gershkovich, according to the State Department. “Russia is required to provide that under our bilateral consular convention,” State Department deputy spokesperson Vedant Patel said. Patel also said the US has requested consular access to Gershkovich, but noted that “due to Russia's administrative procedures and security requirements, it will likely be several days before that happens.” He said consular access is the "number one priority" for the State Department so that officials can access Gershkovich's well-being and gather information. White House press secretary Karine Jean-Pierre said the Biden administration is also "fighting for" consular access, adding the president was briefed on the case Thursday morning. The administration has said there is a process that must be completed before they can officially call a situation a wrongful detention case. Asked if the State Department would designate Gershkovich as wrongfully detained, Patel said “the Department regularly reviews the circumstances surrounding the detentions of US nationals overseas for indicators that these detentions are wrongful.” “I'm not going to get ahead of that process as this just happened yesterday. Of course, I'm seeing the same public reporting that you are seeing as it relates to these charges, and I don't think that there is any truth to them. But again, I'm going to let this process play out and not, not get ahead of this process,” he said at a briefing. Patel urged Americans not to travel to Russia and said that Americans residing in Russia should leave “immediately.” CNN's Sam Fossum contributed reporting to this post. ##WSJ Journalist## US State Department principal deputy spokesperson Vedant Patel on Thursday said it was important “that we not make comparisons” between the cases of Evan Gershkovich and Paul Whelan. Whelan, a former Marine who is a US, Irish, British and Canadian citizen, was detained in December 2018 by Russian authorities who alleged he was involved in an intelligence operation. He was sentenced to 16 years in a Russian prison in 2020 after a trial US officials called unfair. Gershkovich, a Wall Street Journal reporter, was arrested Thursday on suspicion of "espionage," according to a Moscow court. “The US government continues to engage with the Russian Federation through the established channel to bring Paul Whelan home. His release continues to be an absolute priority, and we have and will continue to engage the Russian government on his case,” Patel said at a State Department briefing. Patel said the US Embassy will speak with Whelan Thursday, and consular officers last visited him in person in late January. Embassy officials regularly speak by phone with Whelan. “Our family is sorry to hear that another American family will have to experience the same trauma that we have had to endure for the past 1,553 days,” Paul’s brother David Whelan said in an email to the press earlier Thursday. ##WSJ Journalist## More than 7,000 Ukrainian troops have received training by United States forces since the beginning of Russia’s invasion last year, Pentagon spokesman Brig. Gen. Patrick Ryder said Thursday.  This week, 65 Ukrainians who were training on the Patriot air defense system at Fort Sill, Oklahoma, returned to Europe after completing that training. Ryder also said that more than 4,000 Ukrainian soldiers will have completed combined arms training in Germany at the end of this month, including two brigades — one equipped with Bradley Fighting Vehicles and the other with Stryker vehicles.  “Additional combined arms training is currently underway at Grafenwoehr and Hohenfels training areas in Germany, with two motorized infantry battalions consisting of 1,200 Ukrainian Armed Forces personnel,” Ryder said. Russia aims to send a delegation to North Korea as part of the Kremlin's ongoing effort to acquire more weapons from Pyongyang, according to a spokesperson for the United States National Security Council. "We have new information that Russia is actively seeking to acquire additional munitions from North Korea," said John Kirby, the NSC strategic communications coordinator. "We also understand that Russia is seeking to send a delegation to North Korea. And that Russia is offering North Korea food in exchange for munitions." Alleged arms dealer Ashot Mkrtychev is at the center of this latest effort by Russia to circumvent unprecedented Western sanctions and export controls over its brutal invasion of Ukraine, Kirby said Thursday. The US Treasury Department issued sanctions against Mkrtychev earlier Thursday morning, accusing him of trying to facilitate an arms deal between Russia and North Korea. "With this new pariah status also comes risks for those who provide support to him, as we will not hesitate to target such malign actors in the future," Kirby said, vowing to "continue to identify, expose and counter Russian attempts to acquire military equipment from North Korea or any other state that is prepared to support its war in Ukraine." Some background: The US says Russia started purchasing millions of rockets and artillery shells from North Korea last year, as CNN has earlier reported. And toward the end of 2022, North Korea supplied infantry rockets to the private military company Wagner Group for use in the war in Ukraine. US officials have characterized the purchases as a sign that Moscow's military has dwindling stocks of the weapons it needs to sustain the invasion. The Biden administration was not given any advance warning ahead of the Russian detention of Wall Street Journal reporter Evan Gershkovich Thursday, National Security Council Coordinator for Strategic Communications John Kirby said “We were just as surprised by this as all of you were, and it’s too soon to know or to be able to indicate that this is some sort of larger movement afoot here,” Kirby said, adding the administration is “single-mindedly focused” on getting consular access to Gershkovich so they can assess his condition on their own. Kirby wouldn’t say if he believes if Gershkovich, who was credentialed to practice journalism in Russia, has been wrongfully detained, deferring to the State Department, which is tasked with officially determining if Americans are detained wrongfully abroad. “As you know, the State Department has a process for that, whereby they look at the circumstances for each individual — they’re doing that right now, and I certainly wouldn’t want to get ahead of that process,” Kirby said, later repeating the State Department is “looking at this detention.” US Secretary of State Antony Blinken said in a statement Thursday the department is in contact with the Wall Street Journal. ##WSJ Journalist## The US Treasury has sanctioned a man accused of trying to facilitate an arms deal between Russia and North Korea, as the Kremlin looks for new avenues to circumvent Western sanctions over its invasion of Ukraine. Thursday's announcement, leveled against Slovakian national Ashot Mkrtychev, is particularly notable since it's rare for the Treasury to publicly acknowledge efforts to disrupt a deal that's still underway. “Schemes like the arms deal pursued by this individual show that Putin is turning to suppliers of last resort like Iran and the DPRK," US Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen said in a statement, using an abbreviation for the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. "We remain committed to degrading Russia’s military-industrial capabilities, as well as exposing and countering Russian attempts to evade sanctions and obtain military equipment from the DPRK or any other state that is prepared to support its war in Ukraine." The alleged scheme: Starting at the end of 2022, Mkrtychev has been working with North Korean officials to secure "over two dozen" types of weapons and munitions for Russia, according to the Treasury. In exchange, Russia would provide items like commercial aircraft, raw materials and commodities. Moscow had prepared its end of the deal and was ready to make the exchange, according to the Treasury, which cited the accused dealer's correspondence with the countries. Dwindling supplies? The US says Russia started purchasing millions of rockets and artillery shells from North Korea last year, as CNN has earlier reported. The purchases suggest Russia's military has suffered from severe supply shortages in Ukraine, due in part to export controls and sanctions, a US official said at the time. The Treasury repeated that narrative with Thursday's announcement. “Russia has lost over 9,000 pieces of heavy military equipment since the start of the war, and thanks in part to multilateral sanctions and export controls, Putin has become increasingly desperate to replace them,” Yellen said in the statement.  The US has accused North Korea of trying to conceal its weapons shipments to Russia, making it appear as if the ammunition is being sent to countries in the Middle East or North Africa, according to declassified US intelligence. The Biden administration is “deeply concerned" over reports Wall Street Journal reporter Evan Gershkovich has been detained in Russia on charges of espionage, White House press secretary Karine Jean-Pierre said Thursday.  “Last night, White House and State Department Officials spoke with Mr. Gershkovich’s employer, the Wall Street Journal. The Administration has also been in contact with his family. Furthermore, the State Department has been in direct touch with the Russian government on this matter, including actively working to secure consular access to Mr. Gershkovich,” Jean-Pierre said in a statement. “The targeting of American citizens by the Russian government is unacceptable. We condemn the detention of Mr. Gershkovich in the strongest terms," she added. The press secretary also noted the State Department's advise for Americans to not travel to Russia, and added that if they are currently residing or traveling there, then they should "depart immediately." ##WSJ Journalist## The United States government is “deeply concerned over Russia’s widely-reported detention of a U.S. citizen journalist,” US Secretary of State Antony Blinken said in a statement Thursday following the arrest of Wall Street Journal reporter Evan Gershkovich. Blinken said the department is in contact with the Wall Street Journal, according to the statement which did not directly name Gershkovich. “Whenever a U.S. citizen is detained abroad, we immediately seek consular access, and seek to provide all appropriate support," Blinken said. “In the strongest possible terms, we condemn the Kremlin’s continued attempts to intimidate, repress, and punish journalists and civil society voices,” the statement added. Gershkovich is the first journalist to be accused of spying by Russia since 1986, when reporter Nick Daniloff was detained on a similar charge while working for the US. ##WSJ Journalist## Ukrainian Defense Minister Oleksii Reznikov posted video of Ukrainian units training on US-provided Stryker and Cougar fighting vehicles — part of a military aid package worth billions of dollars.  The vehicles "are now in the capable hands of Ukraine’s Air Assault Forces. Took them for a test drive. I’m glad that the best soldiers in the world are getting the best vehicles from our partners,” he said in a tweet Thursday. The Strykers are eight-wheel armored fighting vehicles. The Pentagon announced in January that it would send 90 Strykers to Ukraine. Cougars are mine-resistant ambush-protected vehicles. The US Defense Department announced it would send 37 to Ukraine in December. Photographs published earlier this week by Reznikov showed a variety of western hardware assembled at an undisclosed location in Ukraine, including British Challenger 2 tanks, Roshel Senator armored vehicles, and German Marder infantry fighting vehicles. The family of Paul Whelan responded to the news of Russia arresting American journalist Evan Gershkovich and said they were "sorry to hear that another American family will have to experience the same trauma that we have had to endure for the past 1,553 days.” “Unfortunately, the White House does not seem to have found a way to resolve cases like Paul's, where an American is falsely charged with espionage by the Kremlin,” Paul’s brother David Whelan said in an email to the press Thursday. Paul Whelan was arrested in December 2018 on espionage charges. He was convicted and sentenced in June 2020 to 16 years in prison in a trial US officials denounced as unfair. “Whatever it takes, I hope the U.S. government moves quickly and decisively so that Paul and Mr. Gershkovich are able to return to their families and loved ones soon. If these cases truly are the highest priority for the U.S. government, I'm confident that will happen,” David Whelan wrote. ##WSJ Journalist## The United States government was informed of reporter Evan Gershkovich's arrest by the Wall Street Journal, according to a US official. The WSJ declined to comment on the report. The US has not yet formally approached the Kremlin about the correspondent's detainment, according to Russia's foreign ministry. What the paper has said so far: The newspaper “vehemently denies the allegations from the (Russian security service) and seeks the immediate release of our trusted and dedicated reporter," it said in a statement. In a memo informing staff of the arrest, Editor-in-Chief Emma Tucker said she is very concerned for Gershkovich's safety. The paper is in contact with the reporter's family, a person familiar with the situation told CNN. ##WSJ Journalist## President Vladimir Putin has conceded that Western sanctions designed to starve the Kremlin of funds for its invasion of Ukraine could deal a blow to Russia’s economy. “The illegitimate restrictions imposed on the Russian economy may indeed have a negative impact on it in the medium term,” Putin said in televised remarks Wednesday reported by state news agency TASS. It is a rare admission by the Russian leader, who has repeatedly insisted that Russia’s economy remains resilient and that sanctions have hurt Western countries by driving up inflation and energy prices. Putin said Russia’s economy had been growing since July, thanks in part to stronger ties with “countries of the East and South,” likely referring to China and some African countries. He also stressed the importance of domestic demand to the economy, saying it was becoming the leading driver of growth. Russia’s economy has showed surprising resilience to unprecedented sanctions imposed by the West, including an EU ban on most imports of oil products. Preliminary estimates from the Russian government show that economic output shrank by 2.1% last year — a contraction more limited than many economists initially predicted. Yet while China has thrown the Kremlin an economic lifeline by buying Russian energy and providing an alternative to the US dollar, cracks are starting to appear. The Russian government’s revenue plunged 35% in January compared with a year ago, while expenditures jumped 59%, leading to a budget deficit of about 1,761 billion rubles ($23.3 billion). The World Bank and the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development are forecasting contractions of 3.3% and 5.6%, respectively, in 2023. The International Monetary Fund expects Russia’s growth to remain flat this year, but for the economy to shrink by at least 7% in the medium term. In response to Russia’s aggression in Ukraine, Western countries have announced more than 11,300 sanctions since the February 2022 invasion, and frozen some $300 billion of Russia’s foreign reserves. An outspoken Russian oligarch, Oleg Deripaska, said earlier this month that Russia could find itself with no money as soon as next year. — Rob North and Livvy Doherty contributed reporting. The United States has not yet formally approached the Russian Federation about the case of Wall Street Journal correspondent Evan Gershkovich, according to the foreign ministry. The official state news agency TASS quoted Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Yevgeny Ivanov as saying there had been no contact so far. "No, they haven't inquired yet," he said in response to a question from TASS. ##WSJ Journalist## Lawmakers and organizations across America are responding to Russia's arrest of US journalist Evan Gershkovich of the Wall Street Journal. Here's what some of them are saying: US Rep. Jared Moskowitz, a Florida Democrat, described Gershkovich's detenti