A child cries on a bus leaving The Covenant School after a deadly shooting at the school in Nashville on Monday, March 27. People block a busy highway during a protest in Tel Aviv, Israel, on Sunday, March 26. For months, hundreds of thousands of Israelis have been taking to the streets to protest proposed changes to the country's legal system. Iowa basketball player Kate Martin celebrates Sunday, March 26, after the Hawkeyes defeated Louisville to advance to the Final Four. Britain's King Charles III and Camilla, the Queen Consort, are flanked by German President Frank-Walter Steinmeier and his wife, Elke Budenbender, during a welcoming ceremony in Berlin on Wednesday, March 29. It marked the start of Charles' first overseas state visit as monarch, and it was the first time a head of state had been officially welcomed at Berlin's Brandenburg Gate rather than the official residence of the German president. Ukrainian military paramedics tend to a wounded serviceman as they move him away from the front lines near Bakhmut, Ukraine, on Thursday, March 23. He was hit by shrapnel in the arm and leg, but his injuries were not life-threatening, according to Agence France-Presse. The sun rises in front of the Christ the Redeemer statue in Rio de Janeiro on Wednesday, March 29. San Diego State's Jaedon LeDee is defended by Creighton's Ryan Kalkbrenner during an NCAA Tournament game on Sunday, March 26. San Diego State won 57-56 to advance to its first Final Four in school history. A woman looks at extensive storm damage in Rolling Fork, Mississippi, on Saturday, March 25. An outbreak of storms and tornadoes left a trail of destruction that killed at least 21 people in Mississippi alone. Nana the polar bear plays with a ball at the Hanover Adventure Zoo in Hanover, Germany, on Friday, March 23. A woman in a Starbucks Workers Union shirt becomes emotional as Howard Schultz, the former Starbucks CEO, prepares to testify before a US Senate committee on Wednesday, March 29. US Sen. Bernie Sanders was among those who pressed Schultz on the coffee company's labor practices. A woman hugs two girls during a vigil for the school shooting victims in Nashville on Monday, March 27. Drag queen Brigitte Bandit, left, testifies against an anti-drag show bill in Austin, Texas, on Thursday, March 23. Texas is one of the Republican-led states that are considering legislation to restrict or prohibit drag show performances in the presence of children. Riot police face protesters during clashes in Paris on Thursday, March 23. Workers in France staged a national strike that day, protesting a retirement-age increase that was pushed through parliament without a vote. Tourists pick tea leaves at a tea garden in Fuzhou, China, on Tuesday, March 28. A giant meatball, made with a tiny amount of woolly mammoth DNA, is presented at a science museum in Amsterdam, Netherlands, on Tuesday, March 28. The publicity stunt was the work of Vow, an Australian cultured meat startup. Former US President Donald Trump leaves after speaking at a campaign rally in Waco, Texas, on Saturday, March 25. Trump, who is running for president again, railed against what he called "prosecutorial misconduct" and denied any wrongdoing amid investigations in New York, Georgia and Washington. On Thursday, a grand jury in Manhattan voted to indict Trump, according to multiple sources familiar with the matter. It's the first time in American history that a current or former president will face criminal charges. The Manhattan district attorney's office has been investigating Trump in connection with his alleged role in a hush money payment scheme and cover-up involving adult film star Stormy Daniels that dates to the 2016 presidential election. Trump released a statement in response to the indictment claiming it was "Political Persecution and Election Interference at the highest level in history." A lion is seen at Planète Sauvage, an animal park in Port-Saint-Pere, France, on Wednesday, March 29. Hindu devotees pray in the Sarayu River in Ayodhya, India, on Thursday, March 30. It was for the Rama Navami festival that celebrates the birthday of the Hindu God Rama. A crying migrant leans on an ambulance as a person she knows is attended to by medics in Ciudad Juarez, Mexico, on Monday, March 27. At least 38 people died when a fire broke out at a government-run migrant detention center in Ciudad Juarez. Girls attend the first day of school in Kabul, Afghanistan, on Saturday, March 25. But high school remained closed for girls for the second year since the Taliban returned to power. A protester throws a bottle at the Lebanese Central Bank building in Beirut on Friday, March 24. The country has been in a financial crisis since 2019. This aerial photo, taken on Tuesday, March 28, shows an area affected by a landslide in Alausi, Ecuador. The deadly landslide was triggered by months of heavy rain. Actress Gwyneth Paltrow testifies during a civil trial in Park City, Utah, on Friday, March 24. A Utah jury later found her not liable in a 2016 ski collision case. Terry Sanderson, a retired optometrist, sued Paltrow over lasting injuries he said he sustained when the two collided at a resort in Park City more than seven years ago. Paltrow testified that Sanderson skied into her, and she sought $1 in damages, plus attorneys' fees, in her counterclaim. The jury deliberated for a little over two hours before returning their verdict in favor of Paltrow. Iowa's Caitlin Clark shoots a 3-pointer during the NCAA Tournament game against Louisville on Sunday, March 26. Clark became the first player in NCAA Tournament history — men's or women's — to record a 40-point triple-double. She finished with 41 points, 12 assists and 10 rebounds as Iowa won 97-83 to book a spot in the Final Four. Protesters Addie Brue and Madeline Lederman shout "do something" to Tennessee state Rep. Jeremy Faison, chairman of the House Republican Caucus, as he walks toward the House chamber doors in Nashville on Thursday, March 30. This was a few days after the deadly shooting at The Covenant School in Nashville. Japan's Kaori Sakamoto performs during the gala exhibition of the World Figure Skating Championships on Sunday, March 26. It was a couple of days after she successfully defended her world title. Eric Reed, left, helps his father, A.C. Warfield, salvage what he can on Sunday, March 26, after a disastrous tornado tore through Rolling Fork, Mississippi. Actress Jodie Turner-Smith attends the Los Angeles premiere for the film "Murder Mystery 2" on Tuesday, March 28. Britain's King Charles III, left, and German President Frank-Walter Steinmeier, right, try cheese-making during a visit to Brodowin, Germany, on Thursday, March 30. See more photos from the King's visit to Germany. Alfredo Martinez and his family come back to retrieve their car, which Martinez's wife had abandoned after she became stuck in floodwaters near Corcoran, California, on Saturday, March 25. Ohio State's Jacy Sheldon, left, watches her shot after colliding with Virginia Tech's D'asia Gregg during an NCAA Tournament game on Monday, March 27. French high-wire artist Philippe Petit performs above the Great Hall at the National Building Museum in Washington, DC, on Thursday, March 23. A farm in Corcoran, California, unloads part of its herd at the South Creek Dairy in Earlimart, California, on Saturday, March 25. Epic rainfall that has walloped California's Central Valley since late December has left no place for excess water to go, forcing farmers and emergency crews to race to save dairies, farmland and orchards. See last week in 37 photos.