The seller, who went by the name Linda Wang, was curt when asked if she sold a chemical often used to create fentanyl. "That's banned," Wang replied, before quickly providing an alternative: "CAS79099 powder is best. U can have a try."  After more than a week of back and forth, she seemed impatient. "Ok. 79099 powder in USA warehouse now...if you need. Pls order asap," she wrote in a text message exchange. The interaction is part of a CNN investigation that explored whether US-sanctioned chemical companies in China are evading Washington DC's crackdown on illicitly made fentanyl -- finding at least one China-based company that had links to a sanctioned entity, and a seller eager to ship potential ingredients for the lethal drug. More than 100,000 Americans died from drug overdoses in 2021, and two-thirds of the fatalities involved synthetic opioids -- much of it believed from illicitly made fentanyl, according to the Centers for Disease Control. The drug can be 50 times stronger than heroin and 100 times stronger than morphine -- and pharmaceutical grade versions of it can be prescribed by doctors for severe pain. But illegally manufactured fentanyl has turbocharged the US's opioid overdose crisis in the last decade, according to data from the CDC. Controlling the illegal trade of the drug has turned into a geopolitical headache for the Biden administration, as China's vast chemicals market -- which supplies the world with raw materials for everything from perfume to explosives-- is also a major pipeline of the building blocks of fentanyl, known as fentanyl precursors, according to US officials.  Further complicating the fight against fentanyl is the sheer variety of precursors that can be used to make fentanyl and other illicit drugs. Most such precursors also have legitimate uses -- including for medical research -- and are perfectly legal to sell, making up part of the booming transnational trade.  The limitations of sanctions China has strict anti-drug policies domestically, but critics in the US say it is not doing enough to help monitor or regulate purchases from buyers aiming to use Chinese-made ingredients to manufacture illegal drugs overseas. In 2019, Beijing stepped up its crack down on the production and sale of finished fentanyl and its variants, but US-China anti-drug cooperation has since stalled amid disagreements on trade, human rights, the Covid-19 outbreak and Taiwan. Hopes that US Secretary of State Antony Blinken would bring up fentanyl during a planned visit to Beijing died in early February, when Blinken postponed his trip after a surveillance balloon from China floated over the continental US.  As the opioid crisis topped the domestic agenda in 2021, the US sanctioned four companies in China accused of exporting fentanyl or fentanyl precursor chemicals. Online commercial records suggest ties between one of those sanctioned companies, Hebei Atun Trading Co., Ltd., and another China-based company called Shanxi Naipu Import and Export Co., Ltd., that continues to sell fentanyl precursors legally. According to official public records in China, Hebei Atun Trading Co., Ltd., began liquidating in June 2021 and was formally dissolved in August that year. Shanxi Naipu Import and Export Co., Ltd. was registered in the same period, according to official records, and it shares a number of key things in common with Hebei Atun. For example, Hebei Atun's still-active Facebook page once linked to a now-defunct website of Shanxi Naipu -- which is where CNN found Wang's phone number. The two companies' websites are registered to the same email address, and at one time appeared to share an IP address. Today, Shanxi Naipu's websites appear to be carbon copies of Hebei Atun's since-deleted page -- with the same navigation tabs, email address and stock photo of a pipette dropping amber-colored liquid into a cell tray. The Russian and Portuguese versions of the site list "Hebei Atun Trading Co. Ltd." as their copyright holder. One post on a Shanxi Naipu website was titled, "Hebei ATUN Trading Co., Ltd. Wishes you a Happy New Year!" (sic). It has since been deleted.  When presented with CNN's findings, Shanxi Naipu denied ties to Hebei Atun, saying, "we are not related at all." In statements emailed to CNN, Shanxi Naipu said it had purchased the sanctioned company's Facebook account, email and cell phone number in order to "attract internet traffic." Shanxi Naipu also denied selling the fentanyl precursor that Wang offered by text, and stressed that everything they sell is legal, and said that they were taking steps to stop the repercussions from the apparent links to Hebei Atun. "To prevent further impact from Hebei Atun, we have immediately removed relevant promotional websites and platforms," the company said in an emailed statement." Logan Pauley, a China analyst who tracks criminal and drug networks, told CNN, "It's easy on the Chinese side to start a new company to copy and paste the same text that you're posting on social media or you're posting on a trade website, and then just to recreate the same operation over and over again." And Gary Hufbauer, trade expert at the Peterson Institute for International Economics and former US treasury official, likens it to a game of cat-and-mouse. While the US government can add an entity to its sanctions list "overnight," said Hufbauer, there may not be the resources in the US Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control, which enforces sanctions, to keep tabs on new companies that may leverage sanctioned companies' branding or operations.  In a statement to CNN, a spokesperson for the US Treasury said it "had not hesitated" to go after "bad actors" -- citing the four sanctioned Chinese companies -- and would continue to sanction companies and individuals involved in the drug trade. "Treasury continues to monitor the effects of our designations," they said. "If additional information becomes available that can assist sanctions compliance efforts, when appropriate, we provide that information to industry and/or the public." Asked if Beijing was knowingly lax in its efforts to stem the flow of precursor chemicals from its country, the Chinese Foreign Ministry pointed out that most were not controlled substances, in a lengthy statement that also questioned US efforts to treat addiction and demand for opioids. "China has always strictly controlled precursor chemicals in accordance with international conventions and domestic laws. The US side's so-called 'fentanyl precursors,' a small number of them are listed substances by the United Nations, and China has always been resolute in implementing the listed measures. But most of the rest are common chemicals that are not listed by the United Nations, China or even the United States itself," it said in a written statement to CNN. "Government departments do not have the right or the possibility to regulate non-listed chemicals and common commodities," it added. The ministry statement went on to highlight China's harsh domestic penalties on drug trade and consumption. "The Chinese people deeply resent drugs. the Opium War was the beginning of China's modern history of humiliation. The Chinese government has always cracked down on drug crime, and China is a no-go area for international drug dealers." Whack-a-mole drug precursors  Such unregulated precursors, like the one offered by Wang, are not illegal to sell but can be used in the manufacture of illicit substances like fentanyl, methamphetamine, and cocaine. Several precursors used to create fentanyl have been put under international control since 2017, but a savvy chemical engineer can combine legal precursors further up the synthesis chain to make similar compounds. "What we have seen illicit chemists doing now is that certain components of the synthesis are now ... harder for them to purchase, so what they're doing now is they're buying compounds that are structurally very, very similar," Alexandra Evans, a forensic chemist with the D.C. Department of Forensic Sciences, told CNN from her lab in the US capital. Or they can create fentanyl analogues, substitutes that are chemically similar to fentanyl and which has made the crisis more deadly in recent years. One fentanyl analogue was found to be 10,000 times stronger than morphine, according to a 2021 US government report. Controlling the stream of chemicals has turned into a deadly game of whack-a-mole -- where manufacturers are able to use a variety of precursors to synthesize fentanyl and its analogues faster than either can be identified, banned, or regulated.  Many of the building blocks to fentanyl have benign purposes and are legal to buy, but a menu Wang sent of Shanxi Naipu's chemical products for sale appeared designed to support illegal drug manufacture, according to a synthetic chemist who analyzed the list for CNN.  It was "obviously a list curated to help people create illicit drugs," Lyle Isaacs, a professor in the Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry at the University of Maryland, told CNN of the more than 25 chemical compounds on the menu.  At least three compounds on the list could be made into fentanyl, he said. One of the compounds, CAS 79099-07-3, also known as 1-Boc-4-piperidone, was what Wang offered to sell CNN; the other two compounds also have legitimate uses and can be found, for example, in academic laboratories researching future medicines, Isaacs said.  Still more compounds on the list appeared to be building blocks for meth, ecstasy, ketamine, and the cutting of cocaine, as well as over-the-counter drugs like paracetamol, a common pain medication that can also be used to cut heroin and other narcotics, he added.  Asked about the list, Shanxi Naipu reiterated in its statement to CNN that all products on it are legal in China, stating: "We are not professional chemists but just a trading company. Even though we don't have an intimate knowledge of the composition and use of thousands of chemicals, we have always strictly ensured the legality of our products!" Attempts to contact Wang through the company for comment were not successful, and the company said in its statement that she no longer works for them. There are measures that responsible chemical sellers can take to avoid their products being used for illegal drugs. Identity checks are a hallmark of reputable sellers, said a former Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) official. The source spoke to CNN on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to speak to the media. To sell non-listed chemicals, a good-faith seller would normally ask a buyer about the intended use of the compound, and whether the buyer had the backing of a company or institution, such as a research organization or university.   American buyers of regulated chemicals require licenses from the DEA, depending on ho