As populations rise and cities become denser, demand for smarter, more sustainable streets will grow along with them. From AI sensors to roads that charge vehicles as they drive, urban infrastructure is about to get a lot more innovative. Pictured here in a rendering, PlasticRoad, based in the Netherlands, is using "jigsaw" roads that can be quickly assembled and disassembled. PlasticRoad's building blocks are made from recycled plastic and fit together like puzzle pieces. Hollow channels in PlasticRoad's pavers can hold water, pipes, and wires, and make the blocks light enough to be laid directly on sand beds. Their portability allows them to be moved or replaced as the needs of a city and its population change. Italy-based Carlo Ratti Associati co-developed The Dynamic Street in 2018, "a prototype of a modular and reconfigurable paving system that hints at the possibility of the streetscape seamlessly adapting to people's needs." The Dynamic Street project uses a personalized digital platform to design different urban scenarios, from construction and recreation to traffic and city emergencies. It experiments with different patterns using hexagonal pavers and lights. Our streets are also getting more tech-savvy. In 2022, Hayden AI partnered with New York City Transit to detect and report illegal parking in bus lanes. The US-based company's software captures and analyzes metadata from city streets, signaling a new age in urban infrastructure. German start-up Magment is developing wireless charging technology for highways. Its power transfer pads are integrated into the road's surface (pictured here in a rendering), allowing electric vehicles to charge as they drive. A close-up of the rendering showing charging pads under the roadway. Miroslav Tesic, head of Magment's project management, says "autonomous driving needs autonomous charging too." In Phoenix, Arizona, the local government is using "cool pavement" to combat rising temperatures. The water-based asphalt treatment is sprayed on top of existing pavement to reflect, rather than retain heat. Pictured, a residential street with half the pavement treated already. Cool pavement "sunscreen" is already being applied to neighborhood streets in Phoenix. The city hopes that future advancements in engineering will allow the program to expand to higher-volume streets.