During his meeting with House Republicans on Wednesday, Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell did not explicitly predict the central bank will only raise interest rates one more time this year, a person familiar with the matter told CNN. Powell met with conservatives during a closed-door lunch with the Republican Study Committee. Confusion ensued after that meeting when a report indicated Republican Study Chair Rep. Kevin Hern said Powell predicted one more rate hike this year. However, it would be unusual for Powell to make any such prediction, especially given the vast uncertainty in the economy. What Hern told reporters after the lunch was more nuanced. Hern said lawmakers asked Powell how many more interest rates should be expected. In response, Hern said, Powell referenced Fed projections that indicate officials anticipate one more rate hike.   That jives with what the source told CNN. During Wednesday’s meeting with Republicans, Powell referenced estimates issued last week by the Fed known as the Summary of Economic Projections, the person familiar with the matter said.  The most closely-watched part of those projections, known as the dot plot, indicates Fed officials are penciling in approximately one more interest rate hike this year. Powell cited the dot plot during his meeting with Republicans, but he did not outright predict one more interest rate hike, the person familiar with the matter told CNN. A spokesperson for the Federal Reserve declined to comment. Stocks ended Wednesday higher, buoyed by increasing optimism around the banking tumult and a surge in tech stocks. Markets stayed steady as federal regulators continued to testify about the collapse of Silicon Valley Bank and Signature Bank, this time in front of the House Financial Services Committee. Big bank stocks rose: Shares of JPMorgan Chase rose 0.2% and Wells Fargo gained 2.1%. CNN's Fear & Greed Index edged up to 40, indicating fear in the market. Tech stocks continued their run, as investors grew less spooked by the turmoil in the banking sector. Shares of Apple and Amazon climbed roughly 2% and 3.1%, respectively. Investors also parsed through fresh data showing a modest gain in pending home sales in February. A final reading on US GDP for the fourth quarter of 2022, slated for release Thursday at 8:30 a.m. ET, will give investors more insight into the state of the economy. The Dow rose about 324 points, or 1%. The S&P 500 gained 1.4%. The Nasdaq Composite advanced 1.8%. Democratic Rep. Maxine Waters on Wednesday denounced allegations that Silicon Valley Bank failed earlier this month because of diversity initiatives. "Silicon Valley Bank collapsed because of management failures and possible regulatory weaknesses – not because there was one Black man on the board," Waters said. "We saw this same racist playbook during the 2008 financial crisis when some Republicans blamed the Community Reinvestment Act and loans made to people of color." Waters' comments come after several politicians across the aisle seemed to point figures at SVB's diversity initiatives for the bank's failure earlier this month. Republican Rep. Andy Biggs tweeted on March 13 that the bank's "resources should have not been blown on woke/DEI [diversity, equity and inclusion] initiatives instead of actual financial management." Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis said in a Fox News appearance that same day: "This bank, they’re so concerned with DEI and politics and all kinds of stuff. I think that really diverted from them focusing on their core mission." SVB failed earlier this month after the bank revealed that it needs to raise capital, helping lead to a bank run and tumult across the financial sector. According to the bank's DEI report updated on January 2023, men comprised 54% of SVB's global workforce. White employees made up 52% of SVB's total workforce and 92% of its board. The collapse of Silicon Valley Bank and Signature Bank has caused weeks of turmoil and fear in the US financial system. On Wednesday, the House Financial Services Committee held a hearing to figure out what exactly went wrong. But according to Michael Barr, the Fed's vice chair for supervision, there were multiple causes. "I think that anytime you have a bank failure like this, bank management clearly failed, supervisors failed and our regulatory system failed," said Barr at the hearing. "So we’re looking at all of that." The Federal Reserve went without a supervisory chair for nine months between fall 2021 and summer 2022 — the same period when Silicon Valley Bank's "business strategy went awry," said Representative French Hill, a Republican from Arkansas on Wednesday. The Fed's current vice chair for supervision is Michael Barr, who was sworn into his role in July 2022 to replace Randal Quarles after he left the post in October 2021. Barr told The House Financial Services Committee on Wednesday that he is unsure what happened and who was in charge of supervision during that nine-month interim period. "I apologize, I don't know the technical answer to that question," Barr said when asked who was supervising banks during that time. President Biden failed to immediately nominate a replacement for Quarles and the Fed did not have a plan to replace him in the interim, wrote Wharton School Professor and Brookings Fellow Peter Conti-Brown shortly after Quarles' term ended. Instead, the Fed’s vital supervisory and regulatory priorities were "managed by the Fed’s Board of Governors, through their committee structure," Conti-Brown said. Biden did eventually nominate former Fed governor and Treasury official Sarah Bloom Raskin for the role, but withdrew her name from consideration after she was caught in a controversy involving a Colorado financial technology company. Biden eventually nominated Barr in May 2022. "It appears to me that we have a lack of supervisory urgency here," said Hill, noting that it took a full 12 months between when trends in banking triggered concern in Federal Reserve examiners and when action was taken to correct them. During that period without a chair of supervision, wrote Conti-Brown, financial regulation and supervision likely were not at the forefront of the Fed’s policymaking.  "I think you raise an absolutely essential question. It's one of the things we're going to be asking in our review," said Barr to Representative Hill. "Should the supervisors have been much more aggressive in the way that they responded to the risk that they noted? It's something we're going to take a good look at." Michael Barr, vice chair for supervision at the Federal Reserve, doubled down on his comments from Tuesday that interest rate risk is a key focus for the central bank. "Does the Fed board get a report from their economists saying what the impact of their rates will be on the economy, yes or no?" Republican Representative Blaine Luetkemeyer asked. "We regularly discuss interest rate problems. Interest rate risk is an important part of supervision and a bread and butter issue," Barr said. In a sign the US housing market could be stabilizing, pending home sales grew for the third consecutive month in February, even as mortgage rates climbed higher last month. According to data released Wednesday from the National Association of Realtors, the forward-looking indicator of home sales saw contract signings increase in February from January everywhere in the country except the West, where contracts declined. The pending sales index, based on signed contracts to buy a home rather than the final sales that are accounted for in existing home sales, rose by 0.8% from January to February. This was a considerably smaller jump than the 8.1% surge in January from December. "After nearly a year, the housing sector's contraction is coming to an end," said Lawrence Yun, NAR's chief economist. "Existing-home sales, pending contracts and new-home construction pending contracts have turned the corner and climbed for the past three months." Compared to last year, when the market was much busier prior to mortgage rates spiking, pending sales in February were down 21.1%. "The affordable U.S. regions — the Midwest and South — are leading the recovery," Yun added. "Mortgage rates have improved in recent weeks after the federal government guaranteed the status of most mortgages amidst uncertainty in the financial market. While access to commercial mortgage loans could become increasingly difficult, residential mortgage loans are expected to be more readily available." Senators introduced bipartisan legislation Wednesday that would require federal regulators to claw back compensation from executives whose banks fail. The bill — co-sponsored by Democrats Elizabeth Warren and Catherine Cortez Masto, and Republicans Josh Hawley and Mike Braun — would give federal bank regulators the power to hold executives of failed banks responsible "for the costs those failures exact on the rest of the banking system and the economy," the lawmakers said in a statement. Under the legislation, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation would be required to retrieve "all or part" of the compensation those executives would have received in the five years leading up to a bank's insolvency. The bill would also ensure that investors in a bank holding company should bear the losses of the insured depository institution.  “Americans are sick and tired of fat cat bankers paying themselves handsomely while risking other people's hard earned money," said Senator Warren. Senator Hawley said the legislation "puts the executives’ own profits on the line, and that’s exactly as it should be.” Markets rose Wednesday morning ahead of a second day of testimony from banking regulators. The same group who testified before the Senate on Tuesday will now answer questions from the House Financial Services Committee. Markets had slipped Tuesday as investors digested revelations about the events that led to the collapse of Silicon Valley Bank and Signature Bank. Shares of UBS rose 3.61% after the bank said Wednesday that former chief executive Sergio Ermotti will return to the helm to facilitate its takeover of Credit Suisse. Lululemon stock surged about 12.9% after the athleisure retailer on Tuesday reported an earnings beat and cheery outlook for the year. Meanwhile, investors are also anticipating fresh pending home sales data slated for release on Wednesday, which should give insight into the state of the housing market. The Dow rose 233 points, or 0.72%. The S&P 500 gained roughly 1%.  The Nasdaq Composite advanced 1.2%. Lululemon's stock surged Wednesday after the company beat Wall Street forecasts. The athleisure brand, known for its pricey leggings and yoga pants, reported better-than-expected earnings during its latest quarter and sales jumped 30% from a year ago. The company also raised its forecast for 2023. Lululemon climbed 16% during pre-market trading. The brand has been one of the strongest retail stocks in recent years, but investors have turned cautious. Customers have pulled back amid inflation and Lululemon's inventory has swelled. Investors were watching closely to see if demand for casual clothing would remain in a post-pandemic environment. These results gave investors confidence that Lululemon's strong run will continue in 2023. It was a "clear indication of a brand that continues to resonate well with an expanding base of core consumers," Oppenheimer analyst Brian Nagel said in a note to clients. Stocks: US stock futures were higher ahead of a second day of bank hearings on the Hill. Dow futures were up 240 points, or 0.7%. S&P 500 futures were up 0.9%. Nasdaq Composite futures were 0.9% higher. European markets were higher, and Asian markets were sharply higher after Alibaba reorganized.   Fear & Greed Index: 38 = Fear  Oil & gas: US oil prices were up 0.7% to $74 a barrel. Average US gas prices rose to $3.46 a gallon.  Credit Suisse is complicit in ongoing tax evasion by ultra-wealthy Americans, including a potentially criminal conspiracy involving the failure to disclose nearly $100 million in secret offshore accounts held by a single family, a Senate investigation released Wednesday finds. The two-year investigation by Senate Finance Committee Chairman Ron Wyden alleges major violations of the 2014 plea agreement Credit Suisse reached with the US Justice Department after it enabled thousands of wealthy Americans to avoid taxes. “At the center of this investigation are greedy Swiss bankers and catnapping government regulators,” Wyden said in a statement, “and the result appears to be a massive, ongoing conspiracy to help ultra-wealthy US citizens to evade taxes and rip off their fellow Americans.” Read more UBS is bringing back its former chief executive, Sergio Ermotti, to manage the hugely complex and risky task of completing the bank's emergency takeover of rival Credit Suisse.  The surprise appointment, announced Wednesday, highlights the scale of the challenge facing the Swiss lender as it executes a first-of-its-kind merger of two global banks with combined assets of nearly $1.7 trillion.  The Swiss government engineered the rescue 10 days ago as Credit Suisse teetered on the brink of collapse, a failure that would have rocked a global financial system already reeling from the second-biggest American banking collapse in history. Ermotti was UBS CEO between 2011 and 2020 and is credited with successfully overhauling the bank following its bailout during the 2008 financial crisis. He is seen as a safe pair of hands, capable of turning around embattled Credit Suisse.  His second stint in the top job, which begins April 5, means the end of current CEO Ralph Hamers' tenure after just two and a half years in the role, during which time the bank has delivered successive record results. Hamers "has agreed to step down to serve the interests of the new combination, the Swiss financial sector and the country," UBS said in a statement. Hamers will remain at the lender for a transition period. As a first order of business, Ermotti will need to cut thousands of jobs and downsize Credit Suisse's investment bank, while aligning it with a more conservative risk culture. The merger is high-stakes for Switzerland's economy. The combined bank's assets are worth twice as much as the country's annual output, while local deposits in the new entity equal 45% of GDP — an enormous amount even for a nation with healthy public finances and low levels of debt. Ermotti told reporters he felt a "call of duty" to accept the role and that during his previous stint as CEO he had believed that an acquisition of this kind was the "right next move for UBS."  "I always felt that the next chapter I wanted to write back then was a chapter of doing a transaction like this one." Ermotti is currently chairman of Swiss Re and intends to step down after the insurer's annual general meeting next month. In Tuesday's Senate hearing, Democratic Sen. Jon Tester of Montana demanded the Federal Reserve get to the bottom of what went wrong leading up to the implosion of Silicon Valley Bank. “It better be fixed,” Tester told Michael Barr, the vice chair for supervision at the Federal Reserve. “If it’s the regulator’s fault, it better be fixed. If it’s the regulation’s fault, it better be fixed,” Tester said. “If it’s something else, I hope there’s a report to this committee saying, ‘You know what guys, this can happen again unless this happens.’” Tester argued the problems at the bank are obvious.  “I am not a banker. I ain’t even close to being a banker. I’m a dirt farmer,” Tester said, adding that you don’t need to be an accountant to “figure out what the hell was going on here.” Barr responded that ultimately it is the bank management’s responsibility to fix problems that regulators flagged – but they failed to do that. Republican Senators suggested on Tuesday that the banking turmoil came as a result of the Federal Reserve's focus on climate change. The Fed announced in September that the six largest banks in the United States would participate in a voluntary pilot program to test what effects disastrous climate change scenarios could have on their bottom lines. During Tuesday's hearing, some Republican lawmakers appeared to blame the Fed's focus on that program and on addressing climate change in general for a lack of regulatory banking oversight. In his opening statement, Republican Senator Tim Scott, the ranking member of the banking committee, called the Fed's focus on climate change a waste of time. "The Fed should focus on its mission and not the climate arena. This is a waste of time, attention and manpower," he said. "All things that could have gone into bank supervision." Republican Senator Steve Daines of Montana said President Joe Biden's stimulus plan contributed to the downfall of Silicon Valley Bank by failing "to prioritize clear and present risks of the inflationary environment, rising interest rates and what they would do to bond values," and "instead opting to focus on climate change." Daines also accused the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco of prioritizing addressing climate change over the risks presented by higher interest rates. "Senator, I've been focused on risk throughout the system, both short-term and long-term risks," replied Michael Barr, the Fed's vice chair for supervision. "Interest rate risk is a bread and butter issue in banking. It's what our supervisors do all the time." Here are some of the key issues that arose from the Tuesday's hearing: Silicon Valley Bank customers  New details that emerged underscored the enormity of the bank run at SVB as it became the second-largest bank failure in American history. Panicked customers attempted to withdraw a staggering $100 billion from Silicon Valley Bank on the day the tech lender was shut down by regulators, said Michael Barr, vice chair for supervision at the Federal Reserve.  Officials have previously detailed that customers successfully pulled $42 billion from Silicon Valley Bank on March 9, the day before it was shut. Mismanagement led to SVB's failure Barr also detailed how SVB leadership failed to effectively manage interest rates and the risk of running out of cash, calling the bank's failure is a "textbook case of mismanagement." "The bank waited too long to address its problems and, ironically, the overdue actions it finally took to strengthen its balance sheet sparked the uninsured depositor run that led to the bank's failure," said Barr, adding that there was "inadequate" risk management and internal controls. Regulators say banks are safe Barr echoed comments from other top regulators in assuring the public about the safety of banks. "Our banking system is sound and resilient, with strong capital and liquidity," he said Tuesday. "We are committed to ensuring that all deposits are safe. We will continue to closely monitor conditions in the banking system and are prepared to use all of our tools for any size institution, as needed, to keep the system safe and sound." More regulation is needed  "Executives at SVB and Signature [Bank] took wild risks and must be held accountable for exploding their banks," said Democratic Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts. "But let's be clear, these collapses also represent a massive failure in supervision over our nation's banks." All three federal regulators called to testify agreed with Warren that the government needs to strengthen the rules for banks to help prevent future bank collapses. Bank executives could land in trouble Both Gruenberg and Barr confirmed on Tuesday that they are considering serious action against the people who ran the banks.  Becker took home about $10 million in compensation last year. Joseph DePaolo, the former CEO of Signature Bank, received about $8.6 million.  Both the FDIC and Federal Reserve have the authority to claw some of that money back and further penalize bank executives. Potential consequences include prohibition from banking, civil money penalties, or the payment of restitution. Martin Gruenberg, chairman of the board of directors of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, said his agency is already conducting investigations. 