Patagotitan mayorum, a giant dinosaur and possibly the largest ever to have walked the Earth, goes on display for the first time in Europe at London's Natural History Museum on March 31. Scroll through to learn more about this gentle giant that lived around 100 million years ago. A member of the excavation team lies beside a fossilized Patagotitan femur in Argentina. The first evidence of Patagotitan emerged in 2010, before scientific digs discovered the remains of seven creatures. One 2013 dig unearthed 180 bones. A cast of Patagotitan mayorum at the Museo Paleontológico Egidio Feruglio (MEF) in Argentina. A colossal dinosaur and one of the long-necked "titanosaurs," it is thought to have weighed more than nine African elephants and be longer than a blue whale.   The cast of a Patagotitan created by the MEF, along with fossils including a 2.4-meter (8-foot) femur (pictured), were transported to the Natural History Museum in London by a specialist division of IAG Cargo. The dinosaur skeleton filled 40 custom-built containers that were transported in two Boeing 787-9 airplanes. A worker re-assembling a cast of Patagotitan mayorum inside the Waterhouse Gallery at the Natural History Museum. The cast comprises nearly 300 bones and was created using 3-D-scanned fossils from six different individuals. The skull of Patagotitan mayorum, waiting to be added to the rest of the skeleton. The cast is made of fiberglass and polyester resin, filled with expanding foam. Fossils for some bones in the skeleton are yet to be found, says Sinead Marron, exhibition and interpretation manager at the Natural History Museum, and so palaeontologists filled in the gaps using knowledge of other similar dinosaur giants. The back feet of Patagotitan mayorum. The dinosaur is a type of titanosaur, a large, long-necked dinosaur among the sauropod group. Once widespread, titanosaur remains have been identified on every continent except Antarctica. A toy titanosaur outside the front entrance of the Natural History Museum in London. Patagotitan mayorum was thought to have weighed around 57 metric tons and stretched over 120 feet.