Markets fell Tuesday as investors digested the first of several expected Congressional hearings on the banking tumult. The Senate Banking Committee on Tuesday probed key federal regulators on the events that led to the collapse of Silicon Valley Bank and Signature Bank. Regulators revealed that customers of SVB tried to withdraw $100 billion from the bank the day it failed, and that Federal Reserve supervisors gave the bank low ratings on its strength and stability before its collapse. Regional bank stocks slipped, cutting short their Monday rally. The SPDR S&P Regional Banking ETF, which tracks a number of small and midsize bank stocks, fell about 0.4%. But shares of First Citizens Bank, which bought SVB's remaining assets, deposits and loans, rose 2.3%. Shares of New York Community Bank, whose subsidiary Flagstar Bank bought Signature Bank, climbed 1.8%. Shares of AMC Entertainment, the world's largest movie theater chain — and a meme stock — surged 13.2% and saw a brief trading halt on reports that Amazon is looking to purchase the ailing company. Investors also parsed through fresh data on the state of the economy. Confidence in the US economy grew in March despite the turmoil in the financial sector, according to the Conference Board. A survey from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York revealed that Americans expect home prices to continue swelling over the next year. The Dow fell 37 points, or 0.1%. The S&P 500 shed about 0.2%. The Nasdaq Composite lost about 0.5%. Republican Senators repeatedly insinuated on Tuesday that the recent US banking turmoil came as a result of the Federal Reserve's focus on climate change. The Federal Reserve announced in September that the six largest banks in the United States would participate in a voluntary pilot program to test what effects disastrous climate change scenarios could have on their bottom lines. During Tuesday's hearing, some Republican lawmakers appeared to blame the Fed's focus on that program and on addressing climate change in general for a lack of regulatory banking oversight. In his opening statement, Republican Senator Tim Scott, the ranking member of the banking committee, called the Fed's focus on climate change a waste of time. "The Fed should focus on its mission and not the climate arena. This is a waste of time, attention and manpower," he said. "All things that could have gone into bank supervision." Republican Senator Steve Daines of Montana said President Joe Biden's stimulus plan contributed to the downfall of Silicon Valley Bank by failing "to prioritize clear and present risks of the inflationary environment, rising interest rates and what they would do to bond values," and "instead opting to focus on climate change." Daines also accused the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco of prioritizing addressing climate change over the risks presented by higher interest rates. "Senator, I've been focused on risk throughout the system, both short-term and long-term risks," replied Michael Barr, the Fed's vice chair for supervision. "Interest rate risk is a bread and butter issue in banking. It's what our supervisors do all the time." In an interview with Montana Public Radio in 2014, Daines said that "the jury’s still out" on whether climate change is real. His campaigns have received more than $600,000 in donations from the oil and gas industry. Fed Chair Jerome Powell has said repeatedly that the central bank would not become a “climate policymaker.” “Today, some analysts ask whether incorporating into bank supervision the perceived risks associated with climate change is appropriate, wise, and consistent with our existing mandates,” Powell said in January. “In my view, the Fed does have narrow, but important, responsibilities regarding climate-related financial risks. These responsibilities are tightly linked to our responsibilities for bank supervision. The public reasonably expects supervisors to require that banks understand, and appropriately manage, their material risks, including the financial risks of climate change.” Democratic Sen. Jon Tester of Montana demanded the Federal Reserve get to the bottom of what went wrong leading up to the implosion of Silicon Valley Bank. “It better be fixed,” Tester told Michael Barr, the vice chair for supervision at the Federal Reserve.  Barr, who was nominated by President Joe Biden to the top bank oversight role at the Fed, has promised to publicly release a review on the Silicon Valley Bank failure by May 1.  “If it’s the regulator’s fault, it better be fixed. If it’s the regulation’s fault, it better be fixed,” Tester said. “If it’s something else, I hope there’s a report to this committee saying, ‘You know what guys, this can happen again unless this happens.’” Tester argued the problems at the bank are obvious.  “I am not a banker. I ain’t even close to being a banker. I’m a dirt farmer,” Tester said, adding that you don’t need to be an accountant to “figure out what the hell was going on here.” Tester took issue with how bank examiners were aware of brewing problems and management deficiencies at Silicon Valley Bank long before the failure earlier this month.  “For over a year, regulators were saying to this bank, ‘Straighten up and fly right.’ And they never did a damn thing about it,” Tester said. “And the regulators didn’t make it so damn miserable, which to my understanding regulators are pretty good at that when they want to be, that these folks would adjust their business plan to take care of the risks that were in their bank.” Barr responded that ultimately its bank management’s responsibility to fix problems that regulators flagged – but they failed to do that. Still, Barr said officials will discuss whether Fed supervisors also failed to take enough action here.  “We’re going to be talking about that in our review and we expect to be held accountable for it,” Barr said.  Democratic Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts grilled federal regulators on their commitment to tightening banking rules before the Senate Banking Committee on Tuesday.  "Executives at SVB and Signature [Bank] took wild risks and must be held accountable for exploding their banks," Warren said. "But let's be clear, these collapses also represent a massive failure in supervision over our nation's banks." All three federal regulators called to testify agreed with Warren that the government needs to strengthen the rules for banks to help prevent future bank collapses. "I anticipate the need to strengthen capital and liquidity standards for firms over $100 billion," said Michael Barr, the Federal Reserve's vice chair for supervision. Silicon Valley Bank and Signature Bank executives made out pretty well last year. Now, critics want to claw some of that money back. At Tuesday's Senate hearing on the banking crisis, both Michael Barr, the Federal Reserve's vice chair for supervision, and Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Chair Martin Gruenberg confirmed that they were considering serious action against the people who ran the banks. What's happening: Employees of SVB received bonuses for work done in 2022 just hours before the bank collapsed. Recent Securities and Exchange Commission filings also show that former SVB CEO Greg Becker sold more than $2 million in bank stocks in late February and $1.1 million in stocks in January, ahead of the bank's failure. Becker took home about $10 million in compensation last year. Joseph DePaolo, the former CEO of Signature Bank received about $8.6 million. Both the FDIC and Federal Reserve have the authority to claw some of that money back and further penalize bank executives. "The board does have authority to pursue actions against individuals who engage in violations of the law, who engage in unsafe or unsound practices who have engaged in breaches of fiduciary duty," said Barr. "We retain this authority even after a bank fails, and we stand ready to use this authority to the fullest extent based on the facts and circumstances," he said. Potential consequences include a prohibition from banking, civil money penalties, or the payment of restitution. FDIC chair Gruenberg said that his agency is already conducting investigations into the conduct of board members, executives and other affiliated parties of the failed banks. The Federal Reserve received bids for Silicon Valley Bank the Sunday after its collapse, Martin Gruenberg, chairman of the board of directors of the FDIC, testified before Congressional members Tuesday. "One wasn't valid because it had not been approved by the board of the bank. And the other, after we evaluated it, indicated that it was more expensive than a liquidation of the institution would've been to the FDIC," Gruenberg said.  The FDIC said March 19 that it sold Signature Bank to Flagstar Bank, a subsidiary of New York Community Bank. A week later, the FDIC announced that First Citizens Bank bought what's left of Silicon Valley Bank. SVB collapsed March 10 after the bank announced about 48 hours before that it sold securities at a loss and would sell $2.25 billion in new shares to raise capital. That triggered a bank run as prominent key venture firm and figures told depositors to withdraw their money. "A total of $100 billion [of deposits] was scheduled to go out the door that day. The bank did not have enough collateral to meet that," said Michael Barr, vice chair for supervision at the Federal Reserve. Panicked customers attempted to withdraw a staggering $100 billion from Silicon Valley Bank on the day the tech lender was shut down by regulators, a top US regulator said Tuesday. The disclosure underscores the enormity of the bank run at Silicon Valley Bank as it became the second-largest bank failure in American history. Officials have previously detailed that customers successfully pulled $42 billion from Silicon Valley Bank on March 9, the day before it was shut. Michael Barr, vice chair for supervision at the Federal Reserve, told lawmakers on Tuesday that Fed staff worked with Silicon Valley Bank that afternoon and evening and “through the night” to try to find enough collateral to allow it to borrow from the central bank through the discount window. “On Friday morning it appeared it might be possible to meet deposit outflows that was expected,” Barr said at the Senate Banking Committee hearing. But then SVB executives told the Fed the expected deposit outflows would “vastly” surpass what was anticipated, Barr said. “A total of $100 billion was scheduled to go out the door that day,” Barr said. “The bank did not have enough collateral to meet that. And therefore they were not able to actually meet their obligations to pay depositors over the course of that day and they were shut down.” Americans expect home prices to continue to rise over the next year, according to a consumer expectation survey on housing from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. But, they expect prices to rise by the smallest amount since the survey began in 2014. On average, respondents to the survey said they expect home prices would rise 2.6% over the next year. That's lower than last year's expected growth of 7% in 2022. This anticipated decline tracks with data from the core Survey of Consumer Expectations, which shows that home price growth expectations declined sharply between May 2022 and November 2022, when mortgage rates surged. Households expect mortgage rates to go even higher this year, according to the survey. According to respondents, households now expect mortgage rates to rise to 8.4% a year from now and 8.8% in three years' time. Consumers expect rent to fall slightly, but the survey reveals people anticipate rent will remain high by historical standards and in comparison to home price growth expectations. On average, households expect the cost of rent to increase 8.2% over the next year. That is down from the expected 11.5% increase reflected in last year's survey.  Renters reported a small increase in their likelihood of owning a home in the future. The figure rose from 43.3% in 2022 to 44.4% this year. Still, this remains well below the historical norm between 2015 and 2021, when it was generally over 50%. Michael Barr, the Federal Reserve's vice chair for supervision, said Tuesday during the Senate hearing on the bank crisis that Federal Reserve supervisors gave Silicon Valley Bank a low rating before its collapse earlier this month. Regulators use a scale known as CAMELS to determine a bank's strength and the likelihood it could struggle in a difficult environment. "The firm was rated a 3 in the CAMELS scale, which is not well managed. And at the holding company level, it was rated 'deficient,' which is also clearly not well managed," Barr said. The components of the CAMELS rating system include capital adequacy, asset quality, management, earnings components, risk of running low on cash and sensitivity to market risk. The ratings range from one to five, running from the best to worst rating. "Fundamentally, the bank failed because its management failed to appropriately address clear interest rate risk and clear liquidity risk. That interest rate risk and liquidity risk was cited, was highlighted by the supervisors of the firm beginning in November of 2021," Barr said. "The Federal Reserve Bank brought forward these problems to the bank, and they failed to address them in a timely way." Goldman Sachs economists think a soft-landing is still possible, even in the wake of the recent banking meltdown. The turmoil in financial systems caused by the collapse of Silicon Valley Bank and Signature Bank this month have led some financial institutions to tighten their standards and issue fewer loans. If regional banks pull back on lending, that could seriously cool the economy. Banks with less than $250 billion in assets account for about 50% of US commercial and industrial lending, 60% of residential real estate lending, 80% of commercial real estate lending and 45% of consumer lending. But these risks are unlikely to be "a hurricane that pushes the economy into recession," said Jan Hatzius, Goldman Sachs' chief economist, in a note on Tuesday. Instead, he views the potential credit crunch as "a headwind that helps the Fed keep growth below potential despite the support from rising real income and better global growth." Still, Hatzius wrote that "the risks are clearly skewed toward larger negative effects," and that the bank has increased its forecast of a possible recession in the next 12 months up to 35% from 25%. Markets dipped Tuesday as investors awaited the first of several Congressional hearings on recent bank failures and the events that led to the collapse of Silicon Valley Bank. The 2-year and 10-year US Treasury yields rose but pared back their gains Tuesday as investors gained confidence that the turmoil in the banking sector could be contained. This comes after stocks rallied Monday, lifted by improved investor sentiment driven by First Citizens Bank's move to purchase most of SVB. Ahead of the hearing, set for 10 a.m. ET, investors parsed through prepared remarks from Martin Gruenberg, chairman of the board of directors of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and Michael Barr, vice chair for supervision at the Federal Reserve. Investors are also awaiting the latest consumer confidence survey from the Conference Board for a fresh read on the health of the US economy. Meanwhile, shares of Alibaba rose about 9.6% on news that the company plans to split its business into six separate units, in the biggest restructuring of its 24-year history. CNN's Fear & Greed index held steady at 36, indicating fear in the market. The Dow fell 31 points, or 0.1%. The S&P 500 slipped about 0.3%. The Nasdaq Composite sank 0.3%. US home prices fell for the seventh month in a row in January, even as mortgage rates eased, according to the latest S&P CoreLogic Case-Shiller US National Home Price Index, released Tuesday. After seasonal adjustment, the National Index posted a month-over-month decrease of 0.2%. "2023 began as 2022 had ended, with US home prices falling for the seventh consecutive month," said Craig Lazzara, managing director at S&P DJI. The National Home Price Index, covering all nine US census divisions, reported a 3.8% annual gain in January from the year before, but that is down from a 5.6% annual gain in the previous month. Silicon Valley Bank imploded due to mismanagement and a sudden panic among depositors, a top Federal Reserve official plans to tell lawmakers at a hearing on Tuesday. In prepared testimony released on Monday, Michael Barr, the Fed's vice chair for supervision, details how SVB leadership failed to effectively manage interest rate and liquidity risk. "SVB's failure is a textbook case of mismanagement," Barr says in testimony to be delivered before the Senate Banking Committee. The Fed official points out that SVB's belated effort to fix its balance sheet only made matters worse. "The bank waited too long to address its problems and, ironically, the overdue actions it finally took to strengthen its balance sheet sparked the uninsured depositor run that led to the bank's failure," said Barr, adding that there was "inadequate" risk management and internal controls. Depositors yanked $42 billion from SVB on March 9 alone in a bank run, a panic that appeared to be fueled in part by venture capitalists urging tech startups to pull their funds. "Social media saw a surge in talk about a run, and uninsured depositors acted quickly to flee," said Barr. In his testimony, Barr discloses that near the end of 2021, bank supervisors found "deficiencies" in the bank's liquidity risk management. That resulted in six supervisory findings linked to SVB's liquidity stress testing, contingency funding and liquidity risk management. Then, in May 2022, supervisors issued three findings related to "ineffective" board oversight, risk management weaknesses and internal audit function lapses, Barr said. Bank supervisors took further steps last year that show regulators were aware of problems at SVB. Barr's testimony indicates the Fed's review will examine how the 2018 rollback of Dodd-Frank may have contributed to SVB's failure. That rollback, under then-President Donald Trump, allowed SVB to avoid tougher stress testing and rules on liquidity, funding, leverage and capital. Barr said the Fed will weigh whether the applying those tougher rules to SVB would have helped the bank manage the risks that led to its failure. Looking ahead, Barr said the recent events have underscored how regulators must enhance rules applying to banks and study banking has been changed by social media, customer behavior, rapid growth and other developments. The speed at which Silicon Valley Bank collapsed took Bank of England Governor Andrew Bailey by surprise, he told a hearing in UK Parliament on Tuesday.  “In my experience, which goes back 30 years now, it’s probably the fastest passage from health to death since Barings. Barings was a sort of Friday to Sunday thing, and this was pretty similar," he said during the hearing about the rescue of SVB UK. Barings Bank collapsed in 1995 after $1.3 billion was lost by a single rogue trader Nick Leeson.  In spite of the speed of the collapse of SVB UK and its US parent, Bailey said “the UK banking system is in a strong position both capital and liquidity wise.” The banking chief said the markets were “trying to find points of weakness at the moment” but he is confident the UK is not in same place it was during the financial crash of 2008. Bailey said it’s a “very different place to that, but we have to be very vigilant… We are in a period of very high, frankly, tension and alertness.” Stocks: US stock futures were lower ahead of the first of two days of hearings on the banking crisis on Capitol Hill. Investors will be watching closely for hints about where regulation could expand. Dow futures were down 30 points, or 0.1%. S&P 500 futures were down 0.2%. Nasdaq Composite futures were 0.3% lower. European markets were higher, and Asian markets were up for the most part.   Fear & Greed Index: 36 = Fear  Oil & gas: US oil prices were up 0.5% to $73 a barrel. Average US gas prices held steady at $3.44 a gallon.  The job market has remained strong even as the Federal Reserve has spent a full year attempting to cool off the economy by raising interest rates. But economists think that the recent banking turmoil may be what finally raises unemployment. Tech giants like Google, Amazon, Meta and Microsoft have all conducted large layoffs this year. Accenture announced it would slash 19,000 jobs worldwide this month and Disney has begun laying off 7,000 people. Even with those big job cuts, the labor market in the United States remains white hot. US unemployment is near a five-decade low. The recent spate of layoffs, particularly in tech, have largely been shrugged off as companies' adjusting their headcount after overhiring during the pandemic-era boom. But the collapse of Silicon Valley Bank and Signature Bank and the ensuing banking meltdown have led some financial institutions to tighten their standards and issue fewer loans. Worries about maintaining enough cash through the downturn, closer scrutiny by regulators and interest rate hikes by the Fed have led to regional banks in particular to pull back on lending — a trend that may continue.  Economists believe that as loans dry up, so will jobs. "Community and regional banks are the backbone of the real economy, and tighter lending will lead to slower overall economic activity and higher unemployment," said Joe Brusuelas, principal and chief economist for RSM in a recent note. Read more Regulators need to learn that bank runs happen more quickly in the age of social media, said Bank of England Governor Andrew Bailey. The "speed at which runs can take place" mean that recent bank failures have not been like Northern Rock, Bailey said on Monday, referring to the collapse in 2007 of the UK's fifth-largest lender. “This is very different from the Northern Rock-style queue outside the branch type thing,” he told an audience at the London School of Economics. His comments echoed those of Congressman Patrick McHenry, chairman of the US House Financial Services Committee, who said earlier this month that Silicon Valley Bank's collapse was “the first Twitter-fueled bank run.” Tuesday's hearing, along with the one set for Wednesday before the House Financial Services Committee, is likely to be the first of many covering the events that spiraled into a banking crisis.  What lawmakers are saying: Elected officials want a review of what happened at Silicon Valley Bank and Signature Bank, as well as stricter regulations to prevent it from happening again. A key theme will likely be: Why didn't anyone see the collapses coming? Or, perhaps, did anyone see it coming? What's happened so far: The government has already set the wheels in motion for delving into the factors that contributed to the banks' collapse. The Federal Reserve Board on March 13 said that Vice Chair for Supervision Michael Barr is spearheading a review of Silicon Valley Bank, with the report set for public release by May 1. Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen met last week with financial regulators as part of the Financial Stability Oversight Council, which was founded in 2010 as part of the Dodd-Frank law as a watchdog for the financial system. In the days that followed SVB's collapse, the nation's biggest banks intervened to rescue First Republic after its shares plunged. When the fear spread to Credit Suisse, the Swiss government and rival bank UBS stepped in to save the embattled lender. What to expect: It's unclear what will come of the hearings on SVB and Signature Bank.  A trail of clues suggest that the banks' demise didn't come out of the blue, and that SVB's lightning-fast growth, clientele of tech start-ups and a vacant chief risk officer position are key factors. Depending on who's called to testify during the hearings to come, some might have to answer how they missed these red flags. The US economy's most prominent leaders gave seemingly contradictory statements on the health of the banking sector last week. Fresh off of the Federal Reserve's decision on Wednesday to hike interest rates by a quarter point, Fed Chair Jerome Powell said in the central bank's post-meeting press conference at 2:30 p.m. ET that "all depositors' savings are safe." But elsewhere in Washington, Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen testified on the same day (and at the very same time) before a Congressional committee that she wasn't considering a guarantee of all deposits. A day later, Yellen said in something of a reversal that the federal government is ready to take more action to stop bank contagion if necessary to curb systemic risk. The apparent disconnect baffled Wall Street investors, who for weeks have been searching for clues about the state of the banking sector and what the crisis means for the Fed in its fight against inflation. "It kind of reeks of a lack of leadership from the people we need leadership from," says Matthew Tuttle, CEO and CIO of Tuttle Capital Management. "They've got to get their story straight."