Jamie Foster is Vice President of Talent Recruitment and Development for CNN Worldwide, focusing on off-air talent. He is responsible for researching and recruiting producers of all levels and is based in CNN's New York office. He's also involved in shaping the future leadership of CNN. Prior to his current role, Jamie was an Executive Producer for CNN+ programming. Throughout Jamie's distinguished career, he was known as a newsroom leader. He was a producer at NBC O&O KNBC in Los Angeles, CA. He produced the 5pm News in Los Angeles at KNBC. From there, he became their dayside Executive Producer and then the assistant news director. Some highlights of his time at KNBC were producing nightly Olympic specials during the 1996 centennial and winter Olympic games. As an NBC O&O in the country's second-largest market, the station had a team of journalists in Atlanta covering the games. It was one of the country's first stations to report on the 1996 Olympic bombing in Atlanta, Georgia. Jamie led the station's breaking news coverage, which resulted in the KNBC team winning an Emmy award for Best Breaking News Coverage. Foster was also a producer in Miami, Florida, covering nightly specials during the OJ Simpson trial in 1993. "The People vs. Simpson" specials aired at 11pm, after the station's 10pm newscast, and were a daily wrap-up of the trial featuring Anchor/Reporter Patrick Fraser. After the Simpson trial, Jamie was promoted to Executive Producer for the station's three-hour morning newscast, "Today in South Florida." Previously, Jamie also worked in Dallas at WFAA as an Executive Producer and shepherded the 10pm news team to a National Murrow Award for Best Newscast. In addition to his Executive Producer work, Foster was a news director for various news stations, like WJLA in Washington, DC, to WATE in Knoxville, Tennessee, from 2006 to 2018. During his tenure in Tennessee, the station was honored with the National Murrow Award for Breaking News Coverage and Video Storytelling. After his time at WATE, Jamie worked as a producer coach and representative for the No Whining Talent agency. Foster jump-started his career in Virginia by working at three local stations while in college. He worked as a production assistant and sports photographer at WTVR. Foster quickly worked his way up to becoming an 11pm Producer at WRIC. In 1991, Jamie received an offer from WJZ in Baltimore to produce weekends and write for the early evening newscasts. Foster studied Mass Communications, focusing on broadcast journalism at Virginia Commonwealth University in Richmond, Virginia. He is currently a member of the National Association of Black Journalists.