The GOP in 2024 is moving toward a reprise of its most consequential foreign policy debate ever in a presidential primary. Only this time, the results may be reversed. The 1952 GOP presidential nomination fight proved a turning point in the party's history, when Dwight Eisenhower, a champion of internationalism and alliance with Europe to contain the Soviet Union, defeated Sen. Robert Taft, a skeptic of international alliances who wanted to shift America's focus from defending Europe toward confronting communist China. A similar divide is opening within the GOP now. In a distant echo of Taft, former President Donald Trump and Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis, the race's two front-runners have both declared that defending Ukraine against Russia is not an American "vital interest" and "distracts" (as DeSantis put it) from the more important challenge of confronting China. Other likely 2024 candidates, such as former Vice President Mike Pence and former UN Ambassador Nikki Haley, come closer to upholding the Eisenhower position that the US must remain steadfast in protecting Europe against Russian aggression -- and insisting that abandoning Ukraine would embolden China and other potential US adversaries. After Eisenhower's landmark victory over Taft in 1952, every Republican presidential nominee over the next six decades -- a list that extended from Richard Nixon through Ronald Reagan to George W. Bush, John McCain and Mitt Romney -- identified more with the internationalist than isolationist wing of the party. But Trump broke that streak when he won the nomination in 2016 behind a message of brusque economic nationalism and skepticism of international alliances. Now, the GOP appears on track for a 2024 nomination fight which may demonstrate that Trump's rise has lastingly shifted the party's balance of power on foreign policy -- and ended the long era of GOP internationalism Eisenhower's victory began. The fact that DeSantis unveiled his views about Ukraine in a statement to Fox News host Tucker Carlson, a fierce opponent of American engagement with allies, underscored the governor's determination to court Trump's base with his provocative remarks. After several days of intense criticism from Republican internationalists, DeSantis retreated last week from his description of the war as a "territorial dispute" and called Russian President Vladimir Putin "a war criminal," much harsher language than Trump has ever used. But DeSantis, in his interview with British journalist Piers Morgan for another Fox outlet, also reiterated his skepticism of open-ended US support for Ukraine. "I just don't think that's a sufficient interest for us to escalate more involvement," the governor said. Even with his qualifying statements last week, DeSantis' skeptical posture toward Ukraine shows the magnetic pull that Trump has exerted on his party, tugging it away from the Eisenhower tradition. "Trump-ism is the dominant tendency in Republican foreign policy and it's isolationist, its unilateralist, its amoral," said Richard Haass, president of the Council on Foreign Relations and former director of policy planning at the State Department under George W. Bush. The "traditional institutional approach to the world [which was] ... the dominant Republican approach since World War II ... has clearly been eclipsed for now," said Haass, who also held foreign policy positions in the Ronald Reagan and George H.W. Bush administrations. Ivo Daalder, president of the Chicago Council on Global Affairs and former US permanent representative to NATO under Barack Obama, agrees. The fact that both 2024 GOP front-runners are expressing a broad skepticism about US engagement abroad, he said, raises the possibility that Republican "internationalists have not only lost in '16 and '20" when Trump headed the GOP ticket, "but have lost the party forever." The 1952 presidential election, by contrast, was the moment when GOP internationalists seemed to win the party forever. Leading into World War II, the party had been closely split between an internationalist wing determined to counter Adolf Hitler and imperial Japan and an isolationist faction resistant to entanglement in the intensifying confrontation with fascism, especially in Europe. The divide was both ideological and geographic, pitting generally more moderate internationalist East Coast Republicans (many of them tied to Wall Street and international finance) against more conservative isolationist forces centered in the small towns and small businesses of the Midwest and the far West. The Japanese surprise attack that triggered the US entry into World War II ended the political viability of a purely isolationist stance. "After Pearl Harbor there was no way to be a strict isolationist and a national political [figure]," said Joyce Mao, an associate professor of history at Middlebury College and author of the book "Asia First," which recounts the GOP foreign policy debates of that era. After World War II, Republican internationalists joined with Democratic presidents Franklin Roosevelt and Harry Truman to build the international institutions meant to prevent another global war: the United Nations, the Marshall Plan to economically rebuild Europe and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization to militarily defend it from the Soviet Union. Eisenhower, who had organized the Allied invasion of Europe on D-Day in 1944, was firmly in that camp and, in fact, returned to Europe in January 1951 to serve as NATO's first supreme commander. But Robert Taft led a block of "old guard" congressional Republicans that remained much more skeptical of European commitments. Taft, a senator from Ohio and the son of former Republican president William Howard Taft, had generally opposed American aid to Europe before Pearl Harbor and even after the war he pushed to reduce the Marshall Plan and voted against the creation of NATO. Like many of the Republicans who initially resisted involvement in World War II, Mao noted, Robert Taft in the post-war period tried to separate himself both from that isolationist past and the contemporary priorities of GOP internationalists like Eisenhower by arguing for an "Asia First" foreign policy that would shift resources and emphasis from defending Europe to confronting the Communists who had seized control of China. "Eisenhower was viewed by Taft and his colleagues as much too moderate," Mao said. "His European focus was deemed by that conservative wing of the party as much too similar to the liberal Democrats. If this was going to be a moment for conservatism to reassert itself not only against liberalism but also against the moderates in the Republican Party, China provided an ideal plank" to do so. All these strains culminated in the landmark battle for the 1952 GOP presidential nomination. Taft, the Republican Senate leader, was a passionate favorite of conservatives. Eisenhower, still in Europe as NATO supreme commander, was in many respects a reluctant candidate. But as Stephen Ambrose showed in his classic biography, Eisenhower felt compelled to run largely from fear that Taft would lead the US out of NATO, while simultaneously risking a catastrophic war in China. (Eisenhower was also deeply disenchanted with Truman's leadership.) Eisenhower resigned his NATO position, returned to the US, mobilized enough support from the GOP's internationalist wing to beat Taft at the 1952 Republican convention, and then decisively won the presidency that November. "Eisenhower became president precisely because he did not trust this version of isolationism in Taft," said Peter Feaver, a Duke University political scientist who served as a senior adviser for strategic planning on the National Security Council under George W. Bush. Both as a general election candidate and as president, Eisenhower tried to minimize his public conflicts with his party's "old guard." But he unmistakably steered the party (and the nation) toward acceptance of American global leadership within a robust international system of alliances. With only modest variation, that became the dominant foreign policy ideology of the GOP for the next 60 years under Presidents Richard Nixon, Gerald Ford, Ronald Reagan and George H.W. Bush. Late in that period, George W. Bush offered a different emphasis by stressing unilateral American action over coordination with allies, but even he emphasized the need for the US to remain engaged with the world. "It's a pretty unbroken streak," said Geoffrey Kabaservice, author of "Rule and Ruin," a history of the struggles between GOP conservatives and moderates. Taft-like isolationism, coupled with nativist opposition to immigration and protectionist opposition to free trade, first resurfaced as a major force in the GOP with the long-shot presidential campaigns of conservative commentator Patrick J. Buchanan in 1992 and 1996. Two decades later, Trump revived that same triumvirate of isolationism, protectionism and nativism -- what scholars sometimes call "defensive nationalism" -- in his winning drive for the 2016 GOP nomination. Though some traditional GOP internationalists had hoped that Trump in office might moderate those impulses, as president he barreled down all those roads, repeatedly clashing with traditional allies. Now, DeSantis' choice to echo Trump in devaluing Ukraine -- following the calls from so many House conservatives to reduce the US commitment there -- is deflating another hope of the GOP's beleaguered internationalist wing: that Trump's ascent represented a temporary detour and the party would snap back to its traditional support for international engagement once he left office. "Trump-ism has to be taken seriously," as a long-term force in GOP thinking about the world, Haass said. The foreign policy center of gravity in the Republican Party, he added, has moved toward "a much more pinched or minimal American relationship with the world, [with] not a lot of interest in contributing to global responses to challenges like climate change or pandemics." Even before DeSantis qualified his comments in the interview with Morgan, Feaver believed the Florida governor was trying to find a position on Ukraine somewhere between Trump's undiluted skepticism and the unreserved support of Sens. Lindsey Graham of South Carolina and Mitch McConnell of Kentucky. But, Feaver said, by including such inflammatory language as "territorial dispute" in his initial comments, DeSantis demonstrated the risks of pursuing such a strategy of "triangulation." "Triangulation is a risky game because if you get the language off, you may commit yourself in a campaign to a line that makes no sense when you are governing," Feaver said. "This is one of the hardest problems for newcomers and challengers when they are campaigning for president. By giving applause lines that work for the narrow segments of ideologically har