Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu announced that a package of controversial judicial reforms would be delayed, a move that was welcomed by the US and UK. Israel's largest labor union called off a general strike following Netanyahu's announcement – but warned it would take further action if the reforms were revived. Netanyahu's package had triggered months of sustained protests that rocked the country. The crisis deepened Sunday when his office announced the firing of Defense Minister Yoav Gallant after he became the first cabinet member to call for a pause to the controversial plans. Here are the latest headlines: Netanyahu delays changes: Netanyahu announced that he will delay the package of controversial legislation, saying that he is "aware of the tensions" and is "listening to the people." He said he would delay the second and third votes on the remaining legislation until after the Knesset’s Passover recess in April “to give time for a real chance for a real debate," but insisted that the overhaul was necessary. General strike called off: The leader of the Histadrut labor union called for an end to general strike following Netanyahu's announcement. “The general strike stops from this moment,” Arnon Bar-David announced. But, he warned: “If the prime minister returns to aggressive legislation, he’ll find us facing him. Legislation without consent will be met with a general strike.” US welcomes move: The White House says it welcomes the delay. “We welcome this announcement as an opportunity to create additional time and space for compromise. A compromise is precisely what we have been calling for,” said press secretary Karine Jean-Pierre. UK hails Netanyahu decision: The UK “welcomes the decision today by Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to pause legislation to reform Israel’s judiciary," said Foreign Secretary James Cleverly. "It is vital that the shared democratic values that underpin that relationship are upheld, and a robust system of checks and balances are preserved,” he added. Embassy reopens: The Israeli embassy in Washington is re-opening today after a closure due to embassy staff striking under instruction from Histadrut. The “strike is over and the embassy is reopened,” embassy spokesperson Elad Strohmayer told CNN. ##Catch Up## The Israeli embassy in Washington is re-opening today after a closure due to embassy staff striking under instruction from Histadrut, Israel's largest labor union. The “strike is over and the embassy is reopened,” embassy spokesperson Elad Strohmayer told CNN. Earlier Monday the leader of the union called for an end to a general strike following Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's announcement that a planned judicial overhaul would be paused. “The general strike stops from this moment,” Arnon Bar-David announced moments after Netanyahu’s speech. But, he warned: “If the prime minister returns to aggressive legislation, he’ll find us facing him. Legislation without consent will be met with a general strike.” The White House says it welcomes a delay in advancing Israel's controversial judicial reforms, which have concerned President Joe Biden and US officials. “We welcome this announcement as an opportunity to create additional time and space for compromise. A compromise is precisely what we have been calling for,” said press secretary Karine Jean-Pierre. The US continues to urge Israeli leaders to find a compromise as soon as possible, she said. “Democratic societies are strengthened by checks and balances, and fundamental changes to a democratic system should be pursued with the broadest possible base of popular support,” Jean-Pierre added. The US State Department also praised the delay. Deputy spokesperson Vedant Patel also said that he had “no different assessment to offer" when asked by CNN’s Kylie Atwood if the US was still confident in Netanyahu’s leadership of Israel. CNN's Michael Conte and Christian Sierra contributed to this report. The UK “welcomes the decision today by Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to pause legislation to reform Israel’s judiciary," said Foreign Secretary James Cleverly. “The UK enjoys a deep and historic relationship with Israel," Cleverly said in a statement. "As the Prime Minister stressed in his meeting with PM Netanyahu last week, it is vital that the shared democratic values that underpin that relationship are upheld, and a robust system of checks and balances are preserved,” he added. “We urge all parties to find common ground and seek a long-term compromise to this sensitive issue,” said Cleverly. The leader of the Histadrut labor union called for an end to general strike in Israel following Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's announcement that a planned judicial overhaul would be paused. “The general strike stops from this moment,” Arnon Bar-David announced moments after Netanyahu’s speech. But, he warned: “If the prime minister returns to aggressive legislation, he’ll find us facing him. Legislation with out consent will be met with a general strike.” Bar-David was speaking on CNN affiliate Channel 13 in Israel. While Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu announced he would delay crucial votes on judicial reform, he did not back down from insisting the overhaul was necessary. Netanyahu said he would delay the second and third votes on the remaining legislation until after the Knesset’s Passover recess in April “to give time for a real chance for a real debate.” But he insisted that the overhaul was necessary, and reiterated criticism of refusal to train or serve in the military in protest at the planned changes. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said he is "aware of the tensions" and is "listening to the people." Referring to the refusal of some Israel Defense Forces reservists to train in protest at the government plans to overhaul the judiciary, Netanyahu said: The state of Israel cannot continue with people who refuse to serve in the army. Refusing, it’s the end of our country." "Out of the responsibility to the nation, I decided to delay ... the vote, in order to give time for discussion," he added. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is addressing the nation following a day of widespread strikes and protests. As protests in Israel have intensified, President Joe Biden's administration has steadily scaled up its rhetoric on the situation, including saying Sunday it was watching with “concern” after Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu fired his defense minister who spoke out in opposition to the proposed reforms. “Democratic societies are strengthened by checks and balances, and fundamental changes to a democratic system should be pursued with the broadest possible base of popular support,” a statement from the US national security council said.  As of Monday morning, Biden himself has yet to speak publicly about the matter, preferring to voice his deep concern about the judicial proposals directly to Netanyahu, including during their phone call last weekend. He declined to answer questions about Israel as he returned to the White House Sunday evening. A US official said Biden is likely to have another call with Netanyahu in the coming days, but cautioned that the timing was fluid. Some progressive groups have called on the Biden administration to come out more forcefully against Netanyahu’s plans, arguing the weight of the American presidency could help sway events. More than 90 House Democrats also wrote to Biden earlier this month urging him to strongly condemn the judicial proposals. “With the Knesset on the cusp of stripping the judiciary’s check over the current government, we urge you to make clear that the US will firmly oppose any moves toward annexation that the Israeli government may pursue as a result,” the letter read. Biden, who has known Netanyahu for decades, has sought a less confrontational approach, at least in public. The phone call between Biden and Netanyahu last Sunday was “candid and constructive,” one official said, with the president encouraging his Israeli counterpart to seek a compromise plan to the judicial reforms. Benjamin Netanyahu’s controversial plans to weaken Israel’s judiciary will be put on hold after widespread strikes and protests drove the country to a standstill, the party of National Security Minister Itamar Ben Gvir announced Monday. The legislation will be paused until the next legislative term, after the Passover recess in April, Gvir’s Jewish Power party said in a statement. Netanyahu himself has not commented on a delay. A nationwide strike Monday saw workers in virtually every major sector walk out, and protests clogged streets and rammed city centers across Israel demanding an end to the bill. Gvir insisted Monday that the judicial overhaul legislation would still come to a vote in parliament’s summer term. He added that he had "Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's commitment that the legislation will be brought to the Knesset for approval in the next session if no agreements are reached during the recess.”  The Knesset’s summer sitting runs April 30 to July 30. Israel’s controversial finance minister Bezalel Smotrich called on supporters to protest in Jerusalem in favor of the judicial overhaul, announcing he will join the demonstrations.   “Friends! Under no circumstances whatsoever must the reforms to fix the judicial system and to strengthen Israel's democracy be stopped,” Smotrich said in a video message. “Do not give in to violence, to anarchy, to objectors and wild strikes. We are the majority — let's make our voice heard. I will be there — you come too. We won't let them steal our voice and our country,” he added. The minister had attracted controversy over the past month after calling for the Palestinian village of Huwara to be erased. He had also separately denied the existence of the Palestinian people.  Tens of thousands are currently protesting at the Knesset in opposition of a judicial overhaul plan by Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s coalition. For months, hundreds of thousands of people have been taking to the streets across Israel to protest far-reaching changes to the legal system that some say threaten the country’s democratic foundations. Tensions rose further this weekend when Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu abruptly fired Defense Minister Yoav Gallant over his opposition to the planned overhaul, prompting mass street protests and widespread strike action. Here are key things to know about the judicial overhaul: What's the issue? At its core, the changes would give the Israeli parliament, the Knesset, and therefore the parties in power, more control over Israel’s judiciary. It's a hugely significant shake up: From how judges are selected, to what laws the Supreme Court can rule on, to even giving parliament power to overturn Supreme Court decisions, the changes would be the most significant shakeups to Israel’s judiciary since its founding in 1948. Reforms don't come out of nowhere: Figures from across the political spectrum have in the past called for changes to Israel’s judiciary. Israel has no written constitution, only a set of quasi-constitutional basic laws, making the Supreme Court even more powerful. But Israel also has no check on the power of the Knesset other than the Supreme Court. What are the changes? The judicial overhaul is a package of bills, all of which need to pass three votes in the Knesset before they become law. One of the most important elements for Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's government is the bill that changes the makeup of the nine-member committee that selects judges, in order to give the government a majority of the seats on the committee. Another "override clause" would give the Israeli parliament the power to pass laws previously ruled invalid by the court, essentially overriding Supreme Court decisions. Defending the plans: Netanyahu and his supporters argue that the Supreme Court has become an insular, elitist group that does not represent the Israeli people. They argue the Supreme Court has overstepped its role, getting into issues it should not rule on. Unfit for office bill: Another bill, now voted through, makes it more difficult for a sitting Prime Minister to be declared unfit for office, restricting the reasons to physical or mental incapacity and requiring either the prime minister themselves, or two-thirds of the cabinet, to vote for such a declaration. This bill has big implications for the Israeli prime minister and critics say Netanyahu is pushing the overhaul forward because of his own ongoing corruption trial, where he faces charges of fraud, bribery and breach of trust. He denies any wrongdoing. Opposing the bill: Critics say the overhaul goes too far, and will completely destroy the only avenue available to provide checks and balances to the Israeli legislative branch. They warn it will harm the independence of the Israeli judiciary, and will hurt rights not enshrined in Israel’s quasi-constitutional basic laws, like minority rights and freedom of expression. Read more here. ##Catch Up## Israel’s far-right national security minister Itamar Ben Gvir called on supporters to protest in Jerusalem on Monday. “Emergency situation! Heading up to Jerusalem!” he said in a tweet. “The right wing camp will be going out in support in Jerusalem," the post added. "We cannot give up on the nation's choice! Bring a flag and join.” Earlier Monday, Israeli President Isaac Herzog on urged the government to immediately halt its planned judicial overhaul, saying: "the eyes of the whole world are on you." Israel has been brought to a standstill by a "historic" general strike, as anger and unrest at Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's plans to weaken the judiciary peaked. Nurses, airport workers and many more have reduced their hours or walked out. The initial strike action was called by Histadrut, Israel's largest trade union federation, and has been joined or supported by workers in multiple sectors. The federation said critical services such as hospitals, firefighters and the electric company would operate on a Saturday schedule. Food establishments and day care centers will operate as usual and public transportation will continue to run.  “Actions that could endanger human life and the security of the country will not be taken,” Histadrut added. “Stop this judicial process before it is too late,” the federation's leader Arnon Bar-David said, addressing Netanyahu directly as he called the strike. Government: Employees at the local level walked out in cities across Israel, as did public sector workers in national ministries, according to Histadrut. Health care: Nurses will walk out Tuesday, in a move announced by the Israeli Nurses Association. Dozens of hospitals and medical centers have joined the strike. Finance: Israel's central bank and its stock exchange are among the organizations striking, Histadrut said, along with several individual banks. Transport: Israel’s main airport, Ben Gurion Tel Aviv, announced an immediate halt to all take-offs on Monday. They resumed a few hours later. Workers at Israel's ports are also on strike, as are railway workers. Education: Universities were one of the first sectors to announce a strike, with facilities across the country closed. Culture: Museums have closed their doors, as have private entertainment companies like the Israel Film Industry Association, according Histadrut. Retail: The Azrieli Group, a chain of shopping malls, has closed its doors. Restaurants: McDonald's is closing all its restaurants across Israel, the company said on Monday. ##Catch Up## Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's government is "trying to make Israel a dictatorship," according to the country's former leader Ehud Barak, in a blistering attack against the man he once served in Cabinet. “It’s the most severe crisis we have had in Israel in the last 75 years," Barak, who was Israeli prime minister between 1999 and 2001, said at an event hosted by London think tank Chatham House. "It’s a threat to our democracy and our way of life." Barak replaced Netanyahu as Israel's leader and later served as his defense minister for four years. But he attacked his former boss's new, right-wing government, saying it "acts blatantly illegitimately in what it is doing." "We are defending democracy against those who are using the very tools that democracy gives and the very freedom that it bestows upon its citizens in order to destroy it from within," Barak said. "We call it regime change from top down. They are trying to make Israel a dictatorship. We are not going to accept it. This is not going to fit into our basic values and collective psyche.” His intervention came as protests and strikes swept the country, amid an outpouring of anger over Netanyahu's efforts to weaken the judiciary. Israel's embassy in Washington, DC, “will be closed today until further notice and no consular services will be provided," the embassy's spokesperson tweeted Monday. The embassy staff were instructed to go on strike by Histadrut, Israel’s largest trade union federation. Asked if Ambassador Michael Herzog is joining the strike, the embassy spokesperson said he “follows the union’s instructions.” Some background: The temporary shuttering of Israel’s embassy in Washington – with other missions in the US and around the world expected to follow suit – is an extraordinary act of protest in response to a domestic political dispute. Israeli diplomats told CNN they don't recall any other time that the embassy was closed due to a political crisis at home.  Whether or not the diplomats join any public protests is unclear. Typically diplomats are not allowed to join political protests.  Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu called on protesters in Jerusalem to behave responsibly and “not to act violently.” “I call on all the demonstrators in Jerusalem, on the right and the left, to behave responsibly and not to act violently. We are brotherly people," he said in a post on Twitter. Netanyahu is yet to address the country directly as chaos swept Israel on Monday, beyond his tweet. The protests that have been raging across Israel for months escalated over the weekend and continued into Monday, when strikes across multiple industries also brought much of the country to a halt. Crowds of Israelis made their way to the Knesset in Jerusalem, demanding an end to Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's efforts to overhaul the judiciary, which some say threaten the country’s democratic foundations. Others gathered at the Supreme Court waving Israeli flags, an ever-present symbol at the demonstrations. In Tel Aviv, crowds spilled into roads and stopped traffic, aerial footage showed. Workers across several sectors also walked out in a general strike called by Israel's largest union. Israel’s Justice Minister Yariv Levin, one of the most forceful advocates of judicial overhaul, opened the door to the possibility of delaying the legislation, warning that lawlessness could bring the government down.  “I will respect any decision that Prime Minister Netanyahu makes regarding legal reform legislative procedures,” said Levin, a member of Netanyahu’s Likud party. “This is with the knowledge that a situation in which everyone does what he feels like, may immediately lead to the fall of the government and the collapse of the Likud. The controversial legislation sparked unprecedented nationwide strikes on Monday, after Netanyahu fired Defense Minister Yoav Gallant for advocating a delay in passing the laws.  More than two dozen mayors from across Israel went on a hunger strike Monday in Jerusalem, protesting against the government’s proposed judicial overhaul, they announced.  “We, the mayors of local authorities from all sides of the political spectrum, starting tomorrow morning, are launching a hunger strike in Jerusalem opposite the prime minister’s office, demanding an end to the huge crisis and the disaster that Israel is hurtling towards, to prevent the security of the country being affected and for the sake of togetherness and unity of the country," Moshe Fadlon, the mayor of the coastal city of Herzliya, posted statement from himself and his protesting colleagues Sunday night. The statement was signed by 27 officials, representing a broad spectrum of local authorities across the country. Workers at Haifa port -- the largest in Israel -- have joined the strikes that have brought much of the country to a standstill, the port's spokesperson Zohar Arnon told CNN Monday. “Our workers have stopped,” Arnon said. “They are still in the port waiting for developments.” The port in the northern Israeli city of Haifa is one of the country's main hubs. Earlier on Monday, Israel’s main airport, Ben Gurion Tel Aviv, announced an immediate halt to all departing flights. The Azrieli Group, a large chain of Israeli malls, also announced Monday it is also closing in support of the strikes. “We must not stand by when Israel is burning," its chairman Dana Azrieli said in a statement. And McDonald’s has closed all of its restaurants across the country, the company announced on Twitter Monday. The action is part of what Israel’s largest union federation called a “historic” general strike on Monday, intended to heighten pressure on Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to halt his judicial overhaul. “Stop this judicial revolution, this craziness,” Histadrut union federation leader Arnon Bar-David told Netanyahu in a televised speech. Israel’s former Prime Minister Yair Lapid has called on Benjamin Netanyahu's government to halt its judicial overhaul, telling the Knesset that the country has been "taken hostage by a bunch of extremists with no brakes and no boundaries." What's happened here in the past 24 hours is madness, it is a loss of control and a loss of direction," Lapid said. "It is proof that this government has lost its brakes. It is a danger to the State of Israel, it is a danger to the security of Israel. Our home is in danger," he added. Lapid called on Netanyahu to reverse his decision to fire Defence Minister Yoav Gallant, and told lawmakers "we've never been closer to falling apart." "Our national security is at risk, our economy is crumbling, our foreign relations are at their lowest point ever, we don't know what to say to our children about their future in this country. We have been taken hostage by a bunch of extremists with no brakes and no boundaries," said Lapid, who served as prime minister for five months before Netanyahu returned to power following November's election. "It's almost too late, but it isn't too late yet. There are enough decent people in the Likud who can and should stop this madness," he said. "In the history of a country there are rare moments when the government must decide if it’s here to build or to destroy, to unite or to divide," Lapid continued. "This is one of those moments. I call on the government, on the Likud, get a grip, stop the legislation and come talk." Israel’s main airport, Ben Gurion Tel Aviv, on Monday announced an immediate halt to all departing flights, as part of a strike raising pressure on Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. Israel Airports Authority spokesperson Ofer Lefler told CNN that departures will be suspended immediately, although arriving flights will land as planned. Lefler said the airport expected about 70,000 passengers on Monday, with half taking off and half landing. At the airport, journalist Elliott Gotkine's flight was scheduled to take off at 11:30 a.m. local time (4:30 a.m. ET). He reported that the boarding process for his flight was suddenly stopped.  Israel’s largest union federation on Monday called a “historic” general strike, to “stop this judicial revolution, this craziness,” Histadrut leader Arnon Bar-David announced in a televised speech. “Stop this judicial process before it is too late,” Bar-David said, addressing Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu directly. More to come ... At its core, Israel's planned judicial overhaul would give the country's parliament, the Knesset, and therefore the parties in power, more control over the judiciary. From how judges are selected, to what laws the Supreme Court can rule on, to even giving parliament power to overturn Supreme Court decisions, the changes would be the most significant shakeups to Israel’s judiciary since its founding in 1948. What it means for Palestinians: Weakening the judicial branch could limit both Israelis and Palestinians in seeking the court’s defense of their rights if they believe they are compromised by the government. Palestinians in the occupied West Bank could be affected, and of course, Palestinian citizens of Israel or those who hold residency cards would be directly affected. Israel’s Supreme Court has no influence on what happens in Gaza, which is ruled by the Palestinian militant group Hamas. Critics of the changes worry that if the politicians have more control, the rights of minorities in Israel, especially Palestinians living in Israel, would be impacted. Last year, for example, the court halted the evictions of Palestinian families in the flashpoint neighborhood of Sheikh Jarrah in East Jerusalem, where Jewish groups have claimed ownership of land the families have lived on for decades. At the same time, Palestinian activists have argued that the high court has further entrenched Israel’s occupation of the West Bank, having never considered the legality of Israeli settlements there, even though they’re considered illegal by most of the international community. The high court has also been the subject of complaints from Israel’s far right and settlers, who say it is biased against settlers; they have condemned the court’s involvement in approving the eviction of settlers from Gaza and the Northern West Bank in 2005. ##Analysis## This month, 145 American Jewish leaders publicly distanced themselves from a member of the Israeli government, saying Finance Minister Bezalel Smotrich was not welcome in the United States. It was a rare public rebuke of a sitting Israeli minister that brought together individuals from across the Jewish-American political spectrum. Smotrich “has long expressed views that are abhorrent to the vast majority of American Jews, from anti-Arab racism, to virulent homophobia, to a full-throated embrace of Jewish supremacy,” they said in a statement. The comments came after the minister called for a Palestinian town in the occupied West Bank to be “erased” after two Israeli brothers were shot and killed there, prompting a rampage through the area by Israeli Jewish settlers. The episode is a symptom of the widening gap of values between many American Jews and Israel as the Jewish state shifts to the right. In December, Israel swore in the most right-wing government in its history, bringing in extremists known for controversial views. The cabinet has also pushed forward a plan to weaken the judiciary that has brought hundreds of thousands of Israeli protesters to the streets as well as criticism from Israel’s closest allies. The government of Benjamin Netanyahu has become the target of near-regular criticism by the Biden administration. In its latest move, the US State Department last week summoned Israeli Ambassador Michael Herzog after Israel’s parliament passed legislation that allows Jewish settlements to be rebuilt in parts of the occupied West Bank. It was the first summoning of an Israeli ambassador in the US in over a decade. “The reality… is that the interests of American Jews and Israel have been diverging for many years, but it’s been papered over,” Thomas Friedman wrote in the New York Times this month. He called on the community to shun Netanyahu, citing the prime minister’s deployment of the “Trumpist playbook” by courting ultranationalist and ultrareligious parties. Read more here. ##Analysis## Israel’s Defense Minister Yoav Gallant was fired after he called for a pause in the government's drive to overhaul the country’s judicial system in a speech Saturday night. Gallant is a member of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s Likud party. His speech made him the first government minister to take a public stance in favor of a delay in the reforms. “For the security of Israel, for the sake of our sons and daughters: We need to stop the legislative process at this time,” Gallant said in a video statement.  “We need to stop the demonstrations and protests — and reach out for dialogue. Any manifestation of refusal that eats away at the strength of the IDF and harms the security system should be stopped immediately,” Gallant said, a reference to the refusal of some Israel Defense Forces reservists to train in protest at the government plans.  Gallant called for a pause “to allow the people of Israel to celebrate Passover and Independence Day together, and mourn together on Memorial Day and Holocaust Remembrance Day. These are holy days for us.” Israeli Independence Day falls on April 26 this year.  ##Catch Up## Israeli President Isaac Herzog on Monday urged the government to immediately halt its planned judicial overhaul, saying: "the eyes of the whole world are on you." "I turn to the Prime Minister, members of the government and members of the coalition: the feelings are hard and painful. Deep concern hovers over the entire nation. Security, economy, society — everyone is threatened. The eyes of all the people of Israel are on you. The eyes of all the Jewish people are on you. The eyes of the whole world are on you," Herzog said in a post on his official Facebook page. "For the sake of the unity of Israelis, for the sake of committed responsibility I call on you to halt the legislative procedure immediately." Herzog called on the "leaders of all the Knesset factions, coalition and opposition alike, to put the citizens of the country above all, and to act responsibly and with courage without further delay." "Come to your senses now! This is not a political moment, this is a moment for leadership and responsibility," he said. Some context: Although the Israeli presidency is largely a ceremonial role, Herzog has been actively speaking with all parties calling for negotiations. Herzog has previously said the government’s proposed legislation was “misguided, brutal and undermines our democratic foundations,” and warned Israel was potentially on the brink of a “civil war.” Israel's former prime minister Naftali Bennett has urged the country's leader Benjamin Netanyahu to suspend the government's plan for judicial reform and to enter into a dialogue.  Bennett also said fired Defense Minister Yoav Gallant should be reinstated. "I call on the Prime Minister to withdraw Gallant's letter of dismissal, suspend the [judicial] reform, and enter into a lull of negotiation until after Independence Day," Bennett said on Twitter. "It doesn't matter who is right and who is wrong. I call on all the demonstrators and all Israeli citizens — do everything without violence, without bloodshed. We are brothers." Mass protests erupted in Israel Sunday after Netanyahu fired Gallant following his speech calling for a delay to the government's controversial plans to overhaul the judicial system. Gallant said the pause was needed “to allow the people of Israel to celebrate Passover and Independence Day together, and mourn together on Memorial Day and Holocaust Remembrance Day. These are holy days for us.” Israeli Independence Day falls on April 26 this year.  Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said “I’m not trying to destroy democracy, I’m trying to save it,” in an exclusive interview with British broadcaster Piers Morgan.  Morgan posted the quote from the interview on his Twitter account on Sunday evening.  The interview will air at 8 p.m. ET Monday on TalkTV and Fox Nation, according to Morgan’s tweet. Massive crowds filled the streets of the Israeli city of Tel Aviv late Sunday night after Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu fired his defense minister over his opposition to a planned judicial overhaul. Israel has seen months-long protests over the planned judicial overhaul, which opponents say threaten the foundations of Israeli democracy. Here's what you need to know about Israel's deepening political crisis: Mass protests: Waving Israeli flags and chanting "democratia," protesters blocked streets and bridges, including the main Ayalon Highway in Tel Aviv on Sunday. By the early hours pr