The American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists said in a statement late Friday that a federal judge’s ruling in Texas over mifepristone is “inflammatory” and a “grievous legal overstep.” “The decision itself betrays the bias and prejudice that informed its rhetoric, which deliberately ignores decades of evidence-based scientific data and eschews clinically appropriate language about mifepristone, a critical medication used for both abortion and miscarriage management,” said the group’s president, Dr. Iffath Abbasi Hoskins, and its CEO, Dr. Maureen Phipps, in the statement. ##Texas Ruling## The US Food and Drug Administration issued the following statement Friday night in response to the ruling of a federal judge in Texas about its approval of mifepristone: “The FDA has appealed this decision. FDA approved Mifeprex more than 20 years ago based on a comprehensive review of the scientific evidence available and determined that it was safe and effective for its indicated use – medical termination of early pregnancy," the statement read. "The approval was based on the best available science and done in accordance with the laws that govern our work. FDA stands behind its determination that mifepristone is safe and effective under its approved conditions of use for medical termination of early pregnancy, and believes patients should have access to FDA-approved medications that FDA has determined to be safe and effective for their intended uses.” ##Texas Ruling## President Joe Biden promised late Friday night that his administration will fight against a Texas judge's ruling that seeks to halt the FDA’s approval of a medication abortion pill. "My Administration will fight this ruling. The Department of Justice has already filed an appeal and will seek an immediate stay of the decision. But let’s be clear – the only way to stop those who are committed to taking away women’s rights and freedoms in every state is to elect a Congress who will pass a law restoring Roe versus Wade," Biden said in a written statement. The Justice Department filed a notice of appeal Friday night. A judge’s order that seeks to halt the FDA’s approval of a medication abortion drug has been appealed to a federal appeals court. Both the Justice Department and Danco, a manufacturer of the drug that intervened in the case, filed notices of appeal to the US 5th Circuit Court of Appeals. The order halting the approval had already been put on pause for seven days by the judge who handed it down, in order to give the DOJ time to appeal. ##Texas Ruling## Danco Laboratories, the pharmaceutical company that manufactures the abortion pill Mifepristone, released a statement Friday in response to a Texas federal judge issuing a ruling that will suspend the FDA’s two-decade-old approval of the pill. “This is a dark day for public health, especially for reproductive rights and the reliance on science and medical expertise to guide decisions about what drugs are safe and effective and should be available to patients,” said Abby Long, Danco’s director of public affairs.  Long added that the order "fails to account for the meticulous, well-documented FDA decision-making process that led to the initial 2000 approval and the subsequent approvals setting the conditions under which Mifeprex has been distributed for 23 years." "The court blithely strikes down access to a treatment that is safe and effective and has been essential for millions of people for decades – and that remains legal in many states today," Long said. Jessica Ellsworth, lead counsel for Danco, said in the statement that Danco plans to appeal the ruling and "feels strongly that the rule of law should prevail in this case, which would result in a reversal of this ruling." "Today’s decision is wrong on the medicine and science, wrong as a matter of public health policy, wrong as a matter of reproductive rights, and wrong as a matter of law,” Long said. “We will appeal this to the Fifth Circuit and to the Supreme Court, if necessary, while working hard and creatively with FDA, state authorities, healthcare providers, reproductive rights organizations and others to maintain access and do all we can to make Mifeprex available legally.” ##Texas Ruling## A federal judge in Washington state ruled the FDA must keep medication abortion drugs available in more than a dozen Democratic-led states.  Read the decision here: ##Washington State Ruling## New York Democratic Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez called on President Joe Biden to ignore a Texas judge's ruling halting the approval of a medication abortion pill during an interview with CNN's Anderson Cooper Friday. "I believe that the Biden administration should ignore this ruling," Ocasio-Cortez said. The congresswoman said conservative jurists have undermined their legitimacy through the "deeply partisan and unfounded nature" of these rulings. Ocasio-Cortez said a court's decision "relies on enforcement, and it is up to the Biden administration to enforce — to choose whether or not to enforce such a ruling." Pushed by Cooper on whether the lawmaker wanted a system where the federal government ignores the judiciary, Ocasio-Cortez said the FDA and the Biden administration will consider the merits of several legal challenges and decide "how exactly we mapped this out." But the congresswoman said a Republican "power grab" in the judiciary has created a situation in which the legitimacy of their rulings is in doubt. Asked again if she thinks the Biden administration should flatly ignore the ruling, Ocasio-Cortez said the presidency and Congress can and should act as a check on the judiciary, but she did not outline a specific course of action as it pertains to the Biden administration's tack on the abortion ruling. Some key context: US District Judge Matthew Kacsmaryk, who made the ruling halting the abortion pill's FDA approval, is an appointee of former President Donald Trump and known as a deeply conservative jurist. During his presidency, Trump and then-Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell placed a heavy focus on confirming more than 200 judicial nominees, leaving a significant imprint on the judiciary that could last for decades. Ocasio-Cortez said Democrats have been "preparing and anticipating for there being these egregious overreaches by members of the judiciary," saying its a natural progression from Republican efforts to "pack these courts with partisan judges." Remember: The Texas ruling is on hold for seven days so the federal government can appeal. The decision is complicated further by the ruling of a second federal judge in Washington state, who said the drug must remain on the market in more than a dozen Democratic-led states. CNN's Ted Barrett contributed to this report. ##Texas Ruling## Organizations and officials are reacting to US District Judge Matthew Kacsmaryk's decision Friday to halt the FDA's approval of the medication abortion pill, mifepristone. The American Medical Association blasted Kacsmaryk's decision, saying it "flies in the face of science and evidence."  "The court’s disregard for well-established scientific facts in favor of speculative allegations and ideological assertions will cause harm to our patients and undermines the health of the nation. By rejecting medical facts, the court has intruded into the exam room and has intervened in decisions that belong to patients and physicians," said Jack Resneck, Jr., M.D., the group’s president, in a statement.  The Alliance Defending Freedom called Friday's ruling in the case "a significant victory." But Erik Baptist, an attorney with the group, said he is not yet sure how a separate ruling in a case in Washington could conflict with the ruling. “The FDA never had the authority to approve these hazardous drugs and remove important safeguards," Baptist said in a statement. "This is a significant victory for the doctors and medical associations we represent and more importantly, the health and safety of women and girls.” He told reporters he has not yet taken a look at the ruling out of Washington that directly conflicts with the ruling out of Texas.  Michigan Attorney General Dana Nessel expressed her disappointment in the ruling Friday. “I am deeply disappointed that Judge Kacsmaryk has decided in favor of those who would harm women by exacerbating our nation’s reproductive healthcare crisis, the stakes of which have only escalated in the aftermath of the fall of Roe," Nessel said. The Susan B. Anthony Pro-Life America nonprofit called the decision "a win for the health and safety of women and girls." "The ruling reaffirms that pregnancy is not an illness and abortion is not health care," Finally the FDA is being held accountable for its egregious violation of its own rules to fast-track dangerous abortion drugs to market,” the group's state policy director Katie Glenn said in a statement. California Gov. Gavin Newsom said the ruling "ignores facts, science, and the law" and puts "the health of millions of women and girls at risk." "Abortion is still legal and accessible here in California and we won’t stand by as fundamental freedoms are stripped away,” Newsom said in a statement. Sen. Amy Klobuchar spoke to CNN's Anderson Cooper about the ruling Friday. “This is just a complete shock for women across the nation," Klobuchar told Cooper. “I think that his ruling, just under the law, makes no sense when you look at FDA law." Planned Parenthood called Kacsmaryk's decision a "deeply harmful move." "We should all be enraged that one judge can unilaterally reject medical evidence and overrule the FDA’s approval of a medication that has been safely and effectively used for more than two decades," Alexis McGill Johnson, president and CEO of Planned Parenthood, said in a statement. "This decision could threaten the FDA’s role in this country’s public health system, and — if allowed to stand — will have broad and unprecedented consequences that reach far beyond abortion." New York Gov. Kathy Hochul said she is "horrified" by the Texas ruling. "Today's ruling is further evidence that extremists will not just stop at stripping away the right to an abortion," Hochul said in a statement. "Instead, they are actively working, against the will of a vast majority of Americans, to entirely dismantle reproductive health care nationwide." Connecticut Gov. Ned Lamont called the ruling "another devastating attack on "reproductive rights" and said that it "is about controlling medical decisions that should be between patients and their doctors." Maine Gov. Janet T. Mills called the decision "reckless" and said it "ignores basic science and facts." ##Texas Ruling## ##Washington State Ruling## The US Justice Department will appeal the decision by the Texas judge who said he will suspend the FDA’s two-decade-old approval of a medication abortion pill, Attorney General Merrick Garland said in a statement Friday. US District Judge Matthew Kacsmaryk said he was pausing his ruling for seven days so the federal government could appeal.  Garland said the department will also review the decision by the judge in Washington state who said in a new ruling that the FDA must keep medication abortion drugs available in more than a dozen states that sued the FDA to make the abortion pills. ##Texas Ruling## ##Washington State Ruling## The federal judge in Washington state who issued a ruling Friday in a key abortion lawsuit has previously ruled in favor of reproductive rights advocates in a Trump-era dispute.   US District Judge Thomas Owen Rice was appointed to the Eastern District of Washington in 2011 by President Barack Obama. The Senate confirmed Rice for the post in 2012 by a vote of 93-4.   In his ruling, Rice said the FDA must keep medication abortion drugs available in more than a dozen liberal states that sued the FDA to make the abortion pills more accessible.   The judge previously sided with an abortion rights group when he issued a permanent injunction in 2018 that blocked the Trump administration from slashing grants to a Planned Parenthood program that funds teen pregnancy prevention programs across the country.  Planned Parenthood brought the case against the Trump administration after the government ended Teen Pregnancy Prevention grants for 81 organizations across the nation. The grants to fund the program were supposed to run through 2020, but the Department of Health and Human Services said the grants would end in 2018 instead, arguing that the program was unsuccessful.  “The Court determines that the public interest weighs in favor of (Planned Parenthood), as it would prevent harm to the community … and prevent loss of data regarding the effectiveness of teen pregnancy prevention,” Rice wrote.   Rice served as chief judge of the Eastern District of Washington from 2016 to 2020. Prior to his appointment, Rice had served since 1987 as an assistant US Attorney in Washington.   ##Washington State Ruling## A lawyer representing the plaintiffs in the medication abortion lawsuit in Texas called Friday’s ruling “a significant victory,” but said that he is not yet sure how a separate ruling in a Washington state case could conflict with it.  “The FDA never had the authority to approve these hazardous drugs and remove important safeguards. This is a significant victory for the doctors and medical associations we represent and more importantly, the health and safety of women and girls,” Erik Baptist, an attorney with Alliance Defending Freedom, which is representing the abortion pill challengers, told reporters following the ruling.  Baptist said he has not yet looked at the ruling out of Washington that directly conflicts with the Texas ruling. “I'm still digesting the court's decision from the Northern District of Texas. I have not had an opportunity to review the Washington state decision to see how it may or may not impact the court’s decision in our litigation in Texas,” he said.  “I'm not sure whether there's a direct conflict yet and with the Washington state decision just because I haven't read it yet, but there may not be a direct conflict,” he added later. “But if there is a direct conflict then there may be – it may be inevitably going to Supreme Court, but I'm not convinced that it's necessary at this point to make that conclusion.”  Asked about the seven-day stay issued by Kacsmaryk in the case, Baptist said: “The court was recognizing and acknowledging that the government had already asked that and proceeded to give it. So it's a reasonable relief that the court gave to the government to seek that appeal in the interim.”  ##Texas Ruling## White House lawyers are currently reviewing the opposing decisions from judges in Washington and Texas on the FDA's approval of a medication abortion pill, according to an official.  ##Washington State Ruling## ##Texas Ruling## Making her first remarks on a Texas judge's decision to halt the approval of a medication abortion pill, Vice President Kamala Harris said the decision set "a dangerous precedent." Harris spoke to reporters at an airfield in Nashville on Friday after meeting with Democratic lawmakers in Tennessee. “It is contrary to what makes for good public health policy to allow courts and politicians to tell the FDA what it should do,” Harris said. The vice president noted the FDA approved the drug, mifepristone, 20 years ago, and said it has been "proven to be safe" in the two decades since. Harris said she would have more remarks after reviewing the judge's ruling. President Joe Biden has yet to publicly weigh in on the case. "As a general matter, I'll say that there is no question that the president and I are going to stand with the women of America and do everything we can to ensure that women have the ability to make decisions about their health care, their reproductive health care," Harris said. Remember: There are two major decisions on medication abortion that came down in short succession this evening. After the Texas judge's ruling on mifepristone, a second federal judge ruled the drug must remain on the market in more than a dozen Democratic-led states. The two decisions mark the most significant abortion-related rulings since the Supreme Court overturned Roe v. Wade last year. CNN's Sam Fossum contributed to this report. ##Texas Ruling## In a striking split screen to the ruling out of Texas, where US District Judge Matthew Kacsmaryk in Texas tore apart the process the FDA used to approve the drug, mifepristone, which is the first drug used in a two-drug regime to terminate a pregnancy, Judge Thomas Owen Rice in Washington state took a more deferential tone toward to the FDA, ordering that the status quo be maintained by keeping the drug on the marker. “It is not the Court’s role to review the scientific evidence and decide whether mifepristone’s benefits outweigh its risks without REMS and/or ETASU. That is precisely FDA’s role,” Rice said. But he said “the record demonstrates potentially internally inconsistent FDA findings regarding mifepristone’s safety profile.” ##Washington State Ruling## The states where the approval of mifepristone is not affected, thanks to the ruling from a federal judge Friday in Washington state: Washington, Oregon, Arizona, Colorado, Connecticut, Delaware, Illinois, Michigan, Nevada, New Mexico, Rhode Island, Vermont, Hawaii, Maine, Maryland, Minnesota, Pennsylvania, and Washington, DC. ##Washington State Ruling## In a dramatic turn of events, a federal judge in Washington state said Friday night in a new ruling that the FDA must keep medication abortion drugs available in 17 liberal states and Washington, DC, that sued the FDA to make the abortion pills. This lawsuit is separate from the ruling that came down in Texas minutes earlier that will halt the approval of the drug. That ruling was paused for seven days, giving the Justice Department time to appeal. ##Washington State Ruling## A federal judge's decision could have long-term impacts on the trust in the FDA's approval process and chill pharmaceutical companies from developing new drugs, according to Elizabeth Cohen, CNN senior medical correspondent. Mifepristone has about 5 deaths per million users, while other commonly used drugs like Penicillin have about 20 deaths per million users, she said. “So if this judge is so concerned about side effects, why isn't he saying let's take penicillin off the market?” Cohen said. “This is why decisions are not made by judges. Medical and drug decisions are made by doctors and scientists, by teams of them at the FDA," she added. Further, Cohen said a ruling that allows a judge to take a drug off the market could make pharmaceutical companies nervous. She said confidence in scientists at the FDA is critical for the development and creation of new drugs people need. "If they think that just one judge can take that drug off the market, they may not be willing to invest that kind of money," Cohen said. ##Texas Ruling## The move to suspend the FDA's two-decade-old approval of mifepristone was a stunning move, CNN's senior medical correspondent Elizabeth Cohen said Friday. "Not having this for doctors to prescribe for patients is really quite stunning," Cohen said. "It will be quite devastating to many patients." She said it will "be a real problem for reproductive healthcare" if women aren't allowed to take mifepristone. She added that FDA scientists are "the ones who look through all the data." "To have a single judge say essentially that he's smarter than the FDA is really quite stunning," she said. ##Texas Ruling## More than half of abortions in the United States are medication abortions, said Elizabeth Cohen, CNN senior medical correspondent, which means a new ruling from a federal judge in Texas to suspend FDA approval of one of the medical abortion drugs is going to impact people across the country. He is pausing his ruling for seven days so the federal government can appeal, but if at any point that suspension goes into effect, it will take away the option of medical abortion. The drug, mifepristone, is the first drug in the medication abortion process. "The implications really are quite scary," Cohen said. "This would, if it goes through, would get rid of that because of the opinion of one judge. So women really rely on this." Cohen said women rely on mifepristone and medical abortions for other circumstances as well, including when they have miscarriages or need to have an abortion because the fetus is non-viable. "They rely on this for all sorts of reasons, and they wouldn't be able to do that," Cohen said. ##Texas Ruling## CNN Supreme Court analyst Steve Vladeck said Judge Kacsmaryk’s ruling “may never go into effect,” but that the administration will now have to appeal it to higher courts that are stacked with conservative jurists.  “This isn't going to be the last word. Even Judge Kascmaryk recognizes that he can’t let this ruling go into immediate effect. And it may never go into effect,” said Vladeck, who is a professor at the University of Texas School of Law.   “But this puts the onus on the Biden administration to get either the most conservative appeals court in the country, or the most conservative Supreme Court in our lifetime, to freeze this ruling before it can go into effect,” Vladeck added.  ##Texas Ruling## Data analyzed by CNN shows mifepristone, the drug at the center of the Texas medication abortion lawsuit, is even safer than some common, low-risk prescription drugs, including penicillin and Viagra. There were five deaths associated with mifepristone use for every 1 million people in the US who have used the drug since its approval in 2000, according to the US Food and Drug Administration as of last summer. That’s a death rate of 0.0005%. Comparatively, the risk of death by penicillin — a common antibiotic used to treat bacterial infections like pneumonia — is four times greater than it is for mifepristone, according to a study on life-threatening allergic reactions. Risk of death by taking Viagra — used to treat erectile dysfunction — is nearly 10 times greater, according to a study cited in the amicus brief filed by the FDA. “(Mifepristone) has been used for over 20 years by over 5 million people with the capacity to become pregnant,” said Ushma Upadhyay, an associate professor in the department of obstetrics, gynecology and reproductive science at the University of California, San Francisco. “Its safety is very well established.” The lawsuit, filed by a coalition of anti-abortion national medical associations against the FDA, under the umbrella of the “Alliance for Hippocratic Medicine” and several doctors, sought a number of actions by the court, chief among them an injunction ordering the FDA “to withdraw mifepristone and misoprostol as FDA-approved chemical abortion drugs and to withdraw defendants’ actions to deregulate these chemical abortion drugs.” “Plaintiffs now ask this court to do what the FDA was and is legally required to do: protect women and girls by holding unlawful, setting aside, and vacating the FDA’s actions to approve chemical abortion drugs and eviscerate crucial safeguards for those who undergo this dangerous drug regimen,” they wrote in their initial complaint. A federal judge said Friday he will suspend the FDA’s two-decade-old approval of mifepristone, but he is pausing his ruling for seven days so the federal government can appeal. A federal judge in Texas ruled to suspend the FDA’s approval of a medication abortion pill. He is pausing his ruling for seven days so the federal government can appeal.  Read the decision here: ##Texas Ruling## US District Judge Matthew Kacsmaryk said that the Food and Drug Administration had “entirely failed to consider an important aspect of the problem by omitting any evaluation of the psychological effects of the drug or an evaluation of the long term-term medical consequences of the drug," referring to mifepristone, the first drug in the medication abortion process. “Considering the intense psychological trauma and post-traumatic stress women often experience from chemical abortion, this failure should not be overlooked or understated,” he said.  Kacsmaryk also was critical that the drug was not tested for under-18 girls undergoing reproductive development.  “But that is not all,” he continued, criticizing how the FDA handled ultrasounds to identify ectopic pregnancy. A federal judge said he will suspend the FDA’s two-decade-old approval of a medication abortion pill, but he is pausing his ruling for seven days so the federal government can appeal. CNN is reviewing the judge's 67-page ruling now. Medication abortion now makes up a majority of abortions obtained in the US. It has become a key focus in the fallout from the overturning Roe v. Wade. The lawsuit against the FDA, filed by anti-abortion doctors and medical associations, was seeking a preliminary injunction that would require the agency to withdraw or suspend its approval of the drug mifepristone, the first drug in the medication abortion process. ##Texas Ruling## Mifepristone is a drug approved by the US Food and Drug Administration that has been shown to be safe and effective for more than two decades. The lawsuit from anti-abortion advocates claims that the drug is not safe and that the FDA didn’t study it enough to approve it. Along with misoprostol, mifepristone is one of the drugs used for an abortion via medication, as opposed to surgery. Mifepristone is marketed under the brand names Mifeprex and Korlym, and it’s sometimes known as RU 486. Here are some key things to know: How mifepristone works: Mifepristone blocks a hormone called progesterone, which helps the body maintain the inside of the uterus so a pregnancy can continue. A healthy uterine lining is what supports a fertilized egg, embryo and fetus. Without progesterone, the uterus will expel its contents. Someone having a medication abortion takes mifepristone and then, after 24 to 48 hours, takes misoprostol. That drug helps empty the uterus through heavy bleeding and muscle contractions. The medications can be taken as soon as someone learns that they are pregnant and up to 70 days or less since the first day of their last period. This method is effective 99.6% of the time when used to end a pregnancy, studies show. How safe is mifepristone? Data from hundreds of studies and 23 years of approved use has shown that mifepristone is highly safe and effective, according to 12 of the country’s most respected medical associations, including the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists and the American Medical Association, which signed an amicus brief in the Texas case. This medicine combination for abortion is also available in more than 60 other countries. Since its approval in the US in 2000, there have been 5 deaths associated with mifepristone for every 1 million people who used it, according to the US Food and Drug Administration. That means the death rate is 0.0005%. Mifepristone’s safety is on par with those of common over-the-counter pain relievers like ibuprofen and acetaminophen, studies show. Data analyzed by CNN shows that mifepristone is even safer than some of the most common prescription medications. The risk of death from penicillin, an antibiotic used to treat bacterial infections like pneumonia, for example, is four times greater than it is for mifepristone. The risk of death after taking Viagra – used to treat erectile dysfunction – is nearly 10 times higher. Side effects of mifepristone: Mifepristone usually doesn’t have many side effects, doctors say, but as with any drug, there can be short-lived ones. Side effects of mifepristone may include dizziness, weakness, vomiting, headache, diarrhea, nausea, and fever or chills, according to the FDA. Major adverse events like blood loss, hospitalization or a significant infection are “exceedingly rare,” happening in less than 0.3% of patients, according to the medical associations’ amicus brief. How often is mifepristone used? The mifepristone-misoprostol combination is the most common abortion method in the US. Preliminary data published February 2022 from the Guttmacher Institute, a research and policy organization focused on sexual and reproductive health that supports abortion rights, showed that medication abortion accounted for 53% of all abortions in the US. Read more about the drug here. ##Texas Ruling## The federal judge overseeing the high-profile challenge to the FDA’s two-decade-old approval of certain drugs used to terminate a pregnancy is a deeply conservative jurist with a proclivity for siding with plaintiffs looking to roll back reproductive and LGBTQ rights or block key Biden administration policies. US District Judge Matthew Kacsmaryk, an appointee of former President Donald Trump, was confirmed by a 52-46 Senate vote in 2019. The FDA case, the biggest abortion-related case since the Supreme Court overturned Roe v. Wade last year, has drawn considerable criticism from abortion rights advocates. But Kacsmaryk himself has also drawn scrutiny for the way he’s handled the matter, with critics taking issue with some highly unusual steps he took to delay making the public aware that a hearing was scheduled in the case for March 15. Since Kacsmaryk took the bench in 2019, he’s helped make Texas a legal graveyard for policies of President Joe Biden’s administration, largely due to the fact that Texas’ rules for how federal cases are assigned in the state have allowed conservatives to file there strategically, almost guaranteeing their complaints will be before sympathetic judges. Kacsmaryk is assigned every case filed in his division. In recent comments to The Washington Post, Kacsmaryk’s sister, Jennifer Griffith, detailed her brother’s long history of being anti-abortion and how she believes fate brought the abortion case before him. “I feel like he was made for this,” Griffith said. “He is exactly where he needs to be.” The group that brought the medication abortion lawsuit, the Alliance for Hippocratic Medicine, incorporated in Amarillo a few months before they filed the suit, according to documents from the Texas secretary of state’s office. Kacsmaryk is the only federal district judge seated in the Amarillo division of the US District of Northern Texas. Read more about Kacsmaryk here. ##Texas Ruling## For about four hours of arguments on March 15, the federal judge in Texas asked questions that suggested he is seriously considering undoing the US Food and Drug Administration’s approval of a medication abortion drug and the agency’s moves to relax the rules around its use. But the judge, US District Judge Matthew Kacsmaryk, an appointee of former President Donald Trump, also indicated he was thinking through scenarios in which he could keep the drug’s 2000 approval intact while blocking other FDA rules. Anti-abortion doctors and medical associations are seeking a preliminary injunction that would require the FDA to withdraw or suspend its approval of the drug, mifepristone, and that would block the agency’s more recent regulatory changes making the pills more accessible. Here are some of the big takeaways: Judge focused on FDA's process for approving abortion pills: Kacsmaryk showed a particular interest in the arguments by the abortion opponents that the FDA approved mifepristone in an unlawful way. He zeroed in on a claim by the abortion foes that the studies that the FDA looked at when deciding whether to approve the drug did not match the conditions under which the agency allows it to be administered. Erik Baptist, attorney for the challengers, alleged that those studies all featured patients who received ultrasounds before being treated with the drug, which is not among the FDA’s requirements for prescribing abortion pills. Baptist accused the FDA of “examining oranges and declaring apples to be safe.” Justice Department attorney Daniel Schwei defended the FDA’s approach, arguing that the relevant law gives the FDA discretion to determine what studies are adequate for approving a drug’s safety. He also said the challengers’ claims were factually flawed because the FDA also was looking at studies where the patients did not receive an ultrasound. Impact of the reversal of Roe v. Wade: The medication abortion lawsuit targets actions the FDA took around medication abortion pills before last summer’s Supreme Court reversal of Roe v. Wade’s aborti