We've wrapped up our live coverage for the day. You can read more about the severe weather that swept through the South here. Powerful storms and at least one tornado pummeled the Southeast on Friday night, ripping roofs off homes, nearly leveling some neighborhoods and knocking out power for thousands, officials said. At least 26 people were killed and dozens were injured. More than 20 million people are at risk of experiencing severe storms Sunday across much of the southern United States and portions of the Midwest. A Level 3 out of 5 risk for severe storms has been issued across portions of eastern Louisiana, south-central Mississippi and south-central Alabama. This threat level includes Jackson, Hattiesburg and Meridian in Mississippi, as well as Montgomery and Prattville in Alabama. “Large hail to very large hail should be the main threat with any supercells,” the Storm Prediction Center said. “Damaging winds and a few tornadoes also appear possible.” Here's how forecasters expect the day to play out: Multiple rounds of storms are possible Sunday throughout the day. The first round of severe storms is likely to hit portions of Alabama and Georgia Sunday morning, bringing with it the threat of large hail. These storms will then push east into the Carolinas by Sunday afternoon, posing a threat for damaging winds. Additional storms are expected to form across portions of eastern Texas on Sunday afternoon and are forecast to push into Louisiana, Mississippi and eventually Alabama through the afternoon and evening. These storms will be capable of producing large to very large hail, a few tornadoes, and damaging winds. A Level 1 out of 5 threat includes Rolling Fork and Silver City, Mississippi which were greatly damaged by a tornado Friday night. Rep. Bennie Thompson of Mississippi said the aftermath of a tornado plowing through his district is “devastation beyond imagination.” Thompson toured the damage in the small western city of Rolling Fork Friday night and said, “As the night wore on, it was clear that this was something that people have never seen before.”  He told CNN’s Jim Acosta that, after speaking with President Biden today and FEMA administrator Deanne Criswell, it is clear that, “All hands are on deck.” Following Mississippi Gov. Tate Reeves’ request for a major disaster declaration Saturday, Thompson said Biden told him “the moment he gets it, he will review it and push it right back out the door.” Thompson represents Mississippi’s second congressional district, where much of the tornado damage is located. “There is no question that this community cannot come back without significant federal participation,” he said. Thompson said he remains optimistic: “I’m convinced that this tragedy is an opportunity to bring this community back better than what you see right now.” Power outages in the areas of Mississippi and Alabama most severely affected by severe weather overnight have dropped as cleanup gets underway.  The tracking website PowerOutage.us showed that as of 6 p.m. ET, 6,565 customers remained without power in Mississippi communities devastated by the storms, while there were 13,532 across Alabama. As of Saturday afternoon, 12,973 customers still lacked power in Tennessee, which was also hit by the severe weather. Mississippi Gov. Tate Reeves is asking President Joe Biden's administration for an expedited major disaster declaration as cleanup begins from Friday night’s storms. Such a declaration allows the federal government to pump additional resources into a disaster area when state resources determine they are overwhelmed. The state is asking for assistance for Carroll, Humphreys, Monroe and Sharkey Counties. “We’re gonna fight like hell to make sure that we get as many resources to this area as possible,” Gov. Reeves said during a press briefing Saturday in the hard-hit community of Rolling Fork. The state says at least 25 people died in Mississippi due to the storms. Storm chaser Zachary Hill drove into Rolling Fork, Mississippi, Friday night, "about two minutes before the tornado hit" and said he didn't hear any tornado sirens. "We were actually here last night and observed the tornado come into town and we were the first on scene. So, we observed the emergence from the rubble,” he told CNN's Fredricka Whitfield.  Hill said his group "drove into Rolling Fork with the expectation of this storm traveling northeast and going just north of town — that did not happen." He called it the "closest call I've ever had with a violent tornado."  "It's just apocalyptic," Hill said of the storm's aftermath. The city of Amory, Mississippi, is under an emergency boil water notice Saturday due to severe weather damage. “The Amory Water Department suffered a direct hit from the tornado yesterday,” the city's police department said in a Facebook post. The department is also enforcing an overnight curfew starting at 8 p.m. local time (9 p.m. ET) Saturday night. “Please remain off of the streets unless you are a first responder,” the police department said. Amory is located in northeast Mississippi, about 25 miles from Tupelo. The National Weather Service has survey teams in four Mississippi counties Saturday to assess damage. More fatalities from severe storms overnight in Mississippi were confirmed Saturday afternoon by the state Emergency Management Agency, bringing the death toll in the state to 25. “The fatalities are reported in Sharkey, Humphreys, Carroll, and Monroe counties,” the agency said in a news release. “Four people reported missing overnight have now been accounted for.” The Mississippi Emergency Management Agency said dozens of people were injured in the storms. In Alabama, a man died after getting trapped in his mobile home during the storm, making the total death toll confirmed by authorities after the storms 26. In the wake of the powerful storms that killed at least two dozen people in the Mississippi Delta, aid groups are on the ground assisting those in need. Here are ways you can help the relief effort, and also ways you can get assistance: Team Rubicon: Team Rubicon is on the ground in the devastated town of Rolling Fork performing chainsaw operations to clear roads for residents and first responders. The group is also set up to help survivors clear trees, tarp roofs and muck out debris inside homes. Devon Miller of Team Rubicon told CNN the group is looking for new volunteers. Although the team is led by military veterans, first responders and civilians can also sign up to volunteer. The Salvation Army: The Salvation Army (Alabama, Louisiana, Mississippi Division) has deployed their canteens to Rolling Fork, Amory, Silver City, and Winona, Mississippi. These mobile units distribute ready-to-eat meals and water to people in need. William Trueblood, Emergency Disaster Services Director for The Salvation Army ALM Division, expects to distribute between 16,000 and 20,000 meals daily. Donations and volunteer support will be vital. Volunteers not already trained with the organization can be paired with certified workers to join the deployed canteen crews. The Red Cross: Red Cross of Alabama and Mississippi have set up a shelter in Humphreys County at the Greenville Multipurpose Center for those who have been displaced. The group is also serving meals. The Centers for Disaster Philanthropy: The Center for Disaster Philanthropy is focusing on long-term recovery needs such as rebuilding homes and mental health services. MSEMA: The Mississippi Emergency Management Agency coordinates state and local emergency food and shelter. SAMHSA: If you’re facing emotional distress as a result of this tragedy, experienced counselors from the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Service Administration (SAMHSA) Distress Hotline are available for 24/7 emotional support. Call or text 1-800-985-5990. NMRLS: North Mississippi Rural Legal Services (NMRLS) helping residents of north Mississippi with legal issues related to property loss. If you are in need of their services, call their hotline at 1-800-498-1804 Monday through Thursday between 9:30 am to 3:30 pm and press Option # 3 to get help. First responders “still are in a life-saving, life-sustaining mode” after deadly storms devastated parts of Mississippi and Alabama overnight, FEMA Administrator Deanne Criswell said Saturday. A FEMA team is on the way to collaborate with state agencies and provide for any immediate needs with federal resources, Criswell told CNN’s Fredericka Whitfield. She said FEMA will also start planning for long-term recovery efforts. Criswell said she spoke with President Joe Biden earlier Saturday and gave him an update on the situation. She said she’ll be traveling to the area Sunday so she can get a firsthand look. FEMA is working with local officials to figure out “what the state needs right and where they have resource gaps,” she added. “We'll be able to help support some of those needs, and bring in those resources,” she said. “We're partnering really close with the state, and our partners at the American Red Cross are standing up shelters because we know so many people are obviously displaced from their homes, and this will give them that immediate shelter, (give them) that safe place to stay.”  Mississippi Gov. Tate Reeves has already declared a disaster emergency, and Criswell said the administration will work to expedite the process of declaring a major disaster at the federal level, freeing up more resources. President Joe Biden spoke with state and local leaders after deadly storms swept across the South overnight and said he is “praying for those who have lost loved ones" and "for those whose loved ones are missing.”  In a statement, the president wrote that he had reached out to Mississippi Gov. Tate Reeves, that he had spoken with Sens. Roger Wicker and Cindy Hyde-Smith, and that he had touched base with Rep. Bennie Thompson about the situation. Biden expressed condolences and offered “full federal support as communities recover from the effects of this storm.”  “I also spoke to FEMA Administrator Deanne Criswell, who has already deployed emergency response personnel and resources to support search-and-rescue teams, assess the damage, and focus our federal support where it is needed most quickly,” Biden wrote. Mississippi Gov. Tate Reeves issued a state of emergency Saturday in all counties affected by the severe storms that swept across the state Friday, according to a statement.  "I'm devastated by the destruction and loss of life that these storms have caused," Reeves said. "The state of Mississippi will continue doing everything we can to marshal every resource available to support our fellow Mississippians who are in need. The state will be there to help them rebuild." "We're not going anywhere and we're in it for the long haul. Please join me in praying for the family and friends of those who lost loved ones in this trying time," Reeves continued.  Mississippi Gov. Tate Reeves and state emergency officials are heading to hard-hit Sharkey County, on the west side of the state near the border with Arkansas and Louisiana. Several state agencies are also "responding to the devastating tornadoes that swept through the state overnight," according to a press release from Mississippi Emergency Management Agency (MEMA). The agency said "life safety is the number one priority and damage assessments will begin soon." "Just completed command briefing with our disaster response team," Reeves tweeted Saturday morning. "Devastating damage—as everyone knows. This is a tragedy. I am on my way to Sharkey County to be with the people first hit," he said.  The 23 storm fatalities reported so far in the state are in Sharkey, Humphreys, Carroll, and Monroe counties. There are still "dozens" injured and at least four people missing, according to state emergency officials. "Life safety is the number one priority and damage assessments will begin soon," MEMA said, adding that several state agencies are responding across Mississippi. Transportation department damaged: While there are no reports of damaged roadways in the Sharkey County area, a campus for the Mississippi Department of Transportation has been significantly damaged, MEMA said. The hub is located near the small city of Rolling Fork, which was ravaged by the storm. "Some MDOT employees have damaged and/or lost homes in the Rolling Fork area," MEMA said. Despite that, "some of those with damaged homes reported overnight to keep the area roads clear and safe." According to the statement, big trucks are being detoured around Rolling Fork due to low or damaged power lines. The power company is working to make repairs. "Humphreys County is using its multipurpose building for shelter. The American Red Cross will set up a shelter at the Greenville Multipurpose Center. The Red Cross is also providing food, offering one thousand meals for breakfast, one thousand meals for lunch, and one thousand meals for dinner," MEMA said. Federal resources: A FEMA team is also headed to the county, according to MEMA. Homeland Security Secretary Alejandro Mayorksaid as his department will “provide support to the impacted communities” via the FEMA team. “Our thoughts and prayers are with the communities in Mississippi that have been struck by the devastating tornadoes,” Mayorkas said in a tweet, adding he has been in touch with Gov. Reeves and lawmakers from the state. CNN's Priscilla Alvarez, Nick Valencia and Jessica Jordan contributed reporting. In recent years, scientists have noticed an increased frequency of tornadoes in the Southeast, carving a path of lost property and lives. And while "Tornado Alley" states in the Great Plains still lead in the total number of tornadoes, more are appearing in the Southeast, in eastern Texas, Louisiana, Arkansas, Tennessee, Mississippi, Alabama and Georgia. Tornadoes shifting further east have been taking a devastating toll. Southeast tornadoes are harder to spot: Unlike the Plains, where a tornado can be seen coming from miles away, the Southeast has more rugged terrain and more trees, making it more difficult to spot a tornado. Many tornadoes occurring in the area are “rain-wrapped,” so they are less visible to the naked eye, CNN meteorologists said. Tornadoes in the South tend to stay on the ground longer and move faster. Many storms across the Southern states are pushed by a stronger jet stream, which results in faster-moving storms. And many of the storms occur overnight, when most people are sleeping and unaware a tornado is approaching. Parts of the Southeast are more populated: Tornadoes in the Southeast present different vulnerabilities, Victor Gensini, a professor of meteorology at Northern Illinois University, told CNN. “As you move east from Kansas to Mississippi, Georgia, Tennessee, the population density increases rapidly, and we also have an issue in the Southeast of more mobile homes,” he said. “If you get hit in a mobile home from a tornado, you’re much more likely to be killed. You just have a really unique exposure and vulnerability problem.” Even though there are fewer tornadoes in the Southeast than in the Central Plains, there have been more deaths in the Mid-South/Southeast region, because they are occurring in more populated areas. Read more here. A series of Mississippi lawmakers responded to the powerful storms and tornado damage that ripped through the state Friday night. Here's what they had to say: Democratic Rep. Bennie Thompson tweeted Saturday morning: "After touring Rolling Fork and Silver City last night, I will be supporting a federal disaster declaration for all communities impacted. I witnessed firsthand the heroic efforts of our first responders." GOP Sen. Roger Wicker wrote: "I am actively working with state, local, & federal officials tosee that recovery efforts proceed at once. Our delegation will work together to make sure Mississippi families & businesses receive prompt federal assistance. Gayle & I are praying for our devastated communities." GOP Sen. Cindy Hyde-Smith tweeted: "It was a tragic night in Mississippi. I am heartbroken by the loss of life and damage tocommunities. I stand at the ready to support disaster declarations as we look to recover from the devastation these tornadoes left in their wake. Praying for all affected."  Republican Rep. Michael Guest wrote: "Haley and I join our state in mourning the loss of our fellow Mississippians in last night’s weather. Please join us in prayer for the families and friends of those who perished or were injured in the storms." GOP Rep. Mike Ezell wrote Saturday morning: "Please join me in prayer for all those affected by last night’s tornadoes & for the first responders who rushed to serve their fellow Mississippians. I’m prepared to work alongside other federal, state, & local leaders in every way possible as we begin the process of recovery. CNN has contacted their offices, as well as the office of GOP Rep. Trent Kelly, for further comment. "The entire community is gone" in Rolling Fork, Mississippi, said Jeremy McCoy, the constable of neighboring Yazoo County. "It's just leveled — Chuck’s Dairy is gone, that entire trailer park ... it looks like a landfill," McCoy told CNN's Fredricka Whitfield.  Rolling Fork is located in Sharkey County, which is on the west side of Mississippi near the border with Arkansas and Louisiana. Chuck’s Dairy Bar owner Tracy Harden told CNN she and several others hid in a freezer during the storm and narrowly escaped the destruction. The Yazoo County constable said a funeral home and a veterinarian's office in Sharkey are "completely gone." "I've seen several tractors, trucks and trailers stacked on top of each other," he added. "I did a lot of search and rescue — I've never seen one this bad." McCoy said he canvassed the dark and decimated area, "just hoping to hear somebody calling out, listening for baby crying." "I took my ATV over ... looking up in the trees, underneath houses," he said. But there was "no sign of life" when he arrived — "just nothing," he said.  The Mississippi Emergency Management Agency urged residents not to independently join the ongoing search-and-rescue effort Saturday morning after a tornado killed at least 23 people in the state. In a tweet Saturday morning, the department said volunteers will be connected with state-organized groups at an appropriate time. “Volunteer Mississippi is asking private citizens not to self-deploy. They will work to match unaffiliated volunteers with affiliated groups on the ground when the time is right. If you would like to donate water or resources the Rolling Fork Civic Center is open to receive them,” the state agency said in the tweet. A Morgan County, Alabama, man was killed after being trapped inside his mobile home Friday night, according to a spokesperson from the county's emergency management department. There are still widespread power outages throughout Morgan County after Friday night’s deadly storms, and officials are out working to assess the damage Saturday morning, the spokesperson, Brandy Davis, tells CNN. Davis said it is unclear whether one powerful storm struck the county, or if two separate storms hit the area Friday night. She added that further information on the type and number of storms is expected Saturday. Devastating toll of the storms: Mississippi faced the worst of the storms that ripped through the South Friday night, and it accounts for 23 of the 24 storm-related deaths that officials have confirmed to CNN as of Saturday morning. The man killed in his Morgan County mobile home is the first notice of a death in Alabama that CNN has received from officials. Tracy Harden, owner of Chuck’s Dairy Bar in Rolling Fork, Mississippi, told CNN a freezer "is what saved our lives" when a tornado ravaged her city and business. She and several others who were inside the business ran for cover the moment the tornado hit, Harden explained to CNN's Isabel Rosales.  "It was like, no notice," she said. "We didn't know what was happening. I got a message from my daughter and my sister saying, 'There's a tornado, get to safety,' and then one of my cashiers came and said her mom was on the phone and there was a tornado," she continued. "Then all of a sudden, the lights—the lights started flickering and I don't know if it was me or someone else who said, 'Cooler!' And my husband just started pushing us all in the cooler and this little spot saved our lives," Harden said, as she wiped tears from her face.  Harden said a customer who broke his arm was among the people she sheltered with, and he helped free the group from the freezer. "He made a way to get us out and got us out—I don't know who he is, but I thank him," she said. "Thank God we're alive but also, we're so devastated by the loss. The whole trailer park behind the building is gone and we don't know where everybody is, who's alive and who's gone," she said. A devastating tornado ravaged the small city of Rolling Fork, Mississippi, Friday night as a series of severe storms swept through the South. "Families are affected, homes are torn up, families are without a place to live, children are hungry this morning, (with) no clothes," the city's mayor, Eldridge Walker, said.  "We're devastated," Walker told CNN's Isabel Rosales Saturday, as daylight broke in the storm-ravaged city. "It sounded like a freight train driving over my home and it happened so quickly." "As you can see, we're in need of help," Walker added, motioning amid the scattered debris. The mayor said he has been contacted by state officials and legislators for assistance. Many of the public buildings in the Mississippi city were affected or destroyed.  "The City Hall is torn up; the police department is affected as well. (There's) quite a bit of damage and public buildings are displaced at this moment," he said. Walker said "everybody knows each other" in the tight-knit community. "Everybody that's been affected by this storm, every life that's been lost are people that I know," he said somberly.  The mayor's message for all residents: "Be strong, be patient, thank God for what we have now — we are alive." The main threats Saturday will be damaging winds and isolated tornadoes as the larger storm system heads east, with it expected to push off the East Coast by this evening. On Sunday, a Level 2 out of 5 risk is in place across portions of the South for another round of severe storms that will bring damaging winds, isolated tornadoes and severe hail to the area. The areas impacted will include Montgomery in Alabama, Jackson in Mississippi, and Columbus and Macon in Georgia. Flooding could also pose a threat across portions of the South, as an additional 2 to 4 inches of rain is possible through Sunday. Friday night's storms cut a ruinous path across the South, trapping people in their homes and knocking out power in Alabama, Tennessee and Mississippi. According to tracking site PowerOutage.us, the storms knocked out power for more than 83,000 homes and businesses across the three states as of 8:50 a.m. ET. That included more than 47,000 outages reported in Tennessee alone. Search and rescue teams are spread out across Mississippi searching for victims after at least one confirmed tornado touched down there. Residents say some entire neighborhoods were nearly leveled. At least 23 people were killed, dozens injured and four missing after powerful storms and at least one tornado pummeled Mississippi Friday night, according to officials. The storms ripped roofs off homes, nearly leveled some neighborhoods and knocked out power for thousands, authorities said. The greater storm system is pushing east Saturday morning. “We have numerous local and state search and rescue teams that continue to work this morning. A number of assets are on the ground to assist those that have been impacted,” the Mississippi Emergency Management Agency said. “The loss will be felt in these towns forever. Please pray for God’s hand to be over all who lost family and friends,” Mississippi Gov. Tate Reeves tweeted. Search-and-rescue efforts for storm victims began after a confirmed tornado struck the towns of Silver City and Rolling Fork, the latter of which was described by one resident as obliterated. The threat of storms persisted overnight for certain areas across northern Alabama and middle Tennessee, which faced tornado watches and warnings early Saturday. Tornadoes or severe storms that occur at night have the greatest potential to be dangerous because people are less likely to be notified in time if they’re asleep.