As investigations continue into the deadly police beating of a 29-year-old Black man in Memphis, public servants involved in Tyre Nichols' traffic stop and brutal confrontation are facing repercussions -- some as severe as murder charges -- and more fallout is possible. "We are looking at everybody who had any kind of involvement in this incident," Shelby County District Attorney Steven Mulroy told CNN days after release of public body camera and surveillance footage in the January 7 encounter. "We're looking at everybody." Five Black officers pleaded not guilty at their arraignment on February 17 after they were fired January 20, then indicted on seven counts each, including second-degree murder, aggravated assault, aggravated kidnapping and official misconduct. They are due back in court on May 1. A sixth officer, who is White, was fired and disciplined for violating policies in the Nichols case and a seventh officer, who has not been publicly identified and was originally suspended pending an investigation, has been fired, Memphis Chief Legal Officer Jennifer Sink told a city council committee on March 7. In total: Seven police officers were fired, three were suspended, one retired and two had their investigations dropped as a result of the probes, she said. The officer who retired likely would have been terminated, Sink said, but didn't elaborate on what that officer was accused of doing. Nearly two months after five former officers were charged with second-degree murder, three of them were recommended for decertification on March 24. Official decertification would bar them from working in law enforcement in the state. The former officers will have 30 days to appeal or comply with the Tennessee Peace Officer Standards and Training (POST) Commission's order. A fourth former officer who voluntarily surrendered his license cannot appeal and will no longer be allowed to work in law enforcement in Tennessee effective immediately, a POST spokesman told CNN March 24. Nearly two months after the incident, the Department of Justice said it will perform a review of the Memphis Police Department, the department's Office of Community Oriented Policing Services announced March 8. Initially, officials were expected March 8 to release about 20 more hours of footage from the night of the beating in early January, along with some records from the city's now-finished internal probe into 13 police officers and four fire department personnel, a Memphis official said. Now, that release is on hold amid a legal challenge from one of the former officers charged in Nichols' death. A hearing on the issue was set to take place March 8 after a motion was filed by the ex-officer's attorney, Allison Fouche, a spokesperson for the Memphis mayor's office, told CNN. All the fired officers were part of the force's SCORPION unit -- created to tackle rising crime in the city and disbanded amid national outcry following Nichols' death -- the department has confirmed. Those charged are accused of assaulting another young Black man three days before the Nichols encounter, states a federal lawsuit filed February 7 that also alleges the city failed to prevent or address an alleged pattern of policing abuses in the SCORPION unit; the city didn't immediately respond, and the department wouldn't comment. Further, the charged officers are accused of internal police misconduct and policy violations -- including making false statements about Nichols' arrest and bragging about the beating -- that could result in bans from other state law enforcement agencies if more decertification request letters that detail the claims are granted. None of the fired officers previously had been disciplined for excessive force, their personnel files show. The DOJ review, requested by the mayor of Memphis, Tennessee, and the city's police chief, will cover "policies, practices, training, data, and processes related to MPD's use-of-force, de-escalation, and specialized units," according to a news release. Beyond the six fired Memphis police officers, at least seven others will face discipline in the wake of Nichols' death, Sink said February 7. The policy violations are not criminal, she said, adding, "The investigation is ongoing. There could be more." Potential charges "of false reporting" on the initial police report remain under scrutiny, as does every other person at the scene, the district attorney's office spokesperson Erica Williams told CNN on February 1. The city had previously said that three Memphis Fire Department personnel who responded to the scene -- two emergency medical technicians and a fire lieutenant -- were fired, though none was criminally charged. On March 7, Sink said a fourth fire department worker was suspended. Additionally, two Shelby County Sheriff's Office deputies were suspended for five days each without pay for their parts in the case, leaders of those agencies have said. Here's what we know so far about those involved: Tadarrius Bean Bean, 24, was released on a $250,000 bond by January 27, Shelby County Jail records show. Bean joined the department as a recruit in August 2020 and was commissioned as an officer in January 2021, personnel records show. He was transferred to the SCORPION unit in August. Bean's lawyer, John Keith Perry, said after the arraignment his client was "doing his job" at the time of the fatal encounter and that he has seen no information indicating a murder was committed. No previous disciplinary action involving Bean is in the personnel files reviewed by CNN. Bean was initially recording his encounter with Nichols but removed his camera while the scene was still active, his decertification request letter states. He took the camera off his vest and left it on the trunk of a car before walking away to "have a conversation with other officers about the incident," the letter says. At one point, Bean and Officer Justin Smith held Nichols by the arms while other officers pepper-sprayed and "excessively struck" him with a baton, the department says. Bean and Smith also admitted to punching Nichols several times as they tried to handcuff him, the letters say. Demetrius Haley Haley, 30, was released on a $350,000 bond on January 27, jail records show. His defense attorney did not immediately respond to CNN's requests for comment. Haley joined the department as a recruit in August 2020 and was commissioned as an officer in January 2021, personnel records show. Haley, one of the first officers on the scene who dragged Nichols out of his car, didn't turn his camera on before the confrontation, according to the statement of internal charges. Haley "forced (Nichols) out of his vehicle while using loud profanity and wearing a black sweatshirt hoodie over (his) head" and "never told the driver the purpose of the vehicle stop or that he was under arrest," the documents say. In the following moments, Haley pepper-sprayed Nichols directly in the eyes, then he and Officer Emmitt Martin III kicked him on the ground as he was being handcuffed, the documents say. The documents do not clarify whether Haley turned on his camera the second time he encountered Nichols, who was confronted by officers again after he fled on foot. The POST commission, which is responsible for training and enforcing standards for all local police departments in the state, voted to proceed with decertification for Haley and two other officers on March 24. Haley "was found to be in violation of personal conduct, truthfulness, neglect of duty, excessive unnecessary force, compliance with regulations . .. and information concerning police business," Memphis police investigator Monique Williams told the commission board March 23, while recommending Haley's decertification. Haley admitted to investigators he took cell phone photos of a beaten Nichols and texted one to others, the decertification request letters that became public February 7 show. "On your personal cell phone, you took two photographs while standing in front of the obviously injured subject after he was handcuffed," stated the document sent to the POST commission and published online by CNN affiliate WMC. "(Y)ou admitted you shared the photo in a text message with five (5) people," with a sixth recipient identified later. "I have not seen the decertification letter," Haley's attorney Michael Stengel told CNN. Haley in November 2021 got a written reprimand for failing to document his role in the detention that February of a suspect who said she suffered a dislocated shoulder as she was handcuffed and put in the back of a police car by Haley and another officer. Haley was not charged with excessive force; the other officer got a sustained complaint for "excessive/unnecessary force" and resigned, internal police records show. A supervisor at the time called Haley "a hard-working officer (who) routinely makes good decisions" and said he was "sure that this was a limited event," records show. Before that, Haley had been a defendant in a 2016 federal civil suit in which a Shelby County Correctional Center inmate claimed to have been beaten and had his civil rights violated. The lawsuit was dismissed, which Haley requested, records show. CNN has reached out to Haley's attorneys in the suit. In the case, Haley was among three correctional officers said to have accused the plaintiff of trying to flush contraband and taken them to a restroom to be searched, court records show. "Haley and (a co-defendant) hit (plaintiff) in the face with punches," the complaint states. The inmate then was picked up and slammed face-first into a sink by a third correctional officer, then thrown to the floor, after which the inmate allegedly "blacked out" and woke up in a medical unit, it states. Haley and another correctional officer acknowledged searching the inmate after they "observed smoke" and the attempted flush, according to their motion to dismiss. Haley denied the other allegations, it shows. Emmitt Martin III Martin, 30, was released on a $350,000 bond by January 27, jail records show. "Justice means following the law, and the law says that no one is guilty until a jury says they're guilty," his attorney William Massey said on January 26, adding, "No one out there that night intended for Tyre Nichols to die." Martin joined the department in 2018, according to personnel files. Martin, who was also one of the first officers on the scene and dragged Nichols out of his car, didn't turn his camera on before the confrontation, according to his statement of internal charges. The documents do not clarify whether Martin turned on his camera the second time he encountered Nichols. He "at some point" took his camera off and put it in his car, Martin's letter says. In the following moments, after Nichols was pepper-sprayed, Martin and Haley kicked him on the ground as he was being handcuffed, the documents say. The POST