House Oversight Chairman James Comer has quietly issued several subpoenas for documents and bank records as part of the Republican-led investigation into the financial dealings of President Joe Biden's family, according to an internal memo shared among Democrats on the panel. The memo, obtained by CNN, reveals new details about the subpoenas issued by Comer as part of the ongoing probe, which has stoked the ire of Democratic members who have accused the Kentucky Republican of covertly investigating business dealings by the president's son, Hunter Biden. "This memorandum serves to ensure that Committee Democrats have access to all relevant information, including the six document subpoenas issued to date," it says. The memo comes a day after the committee's top Democrat, Maryland Rep. Jamie Raskin, criticized committee Republicans for "shielding information" related to the panel's investigations. House rules mandate that committee materials are shared between the majority and minority. "Committee Republicans' decision to conduct this probe behind a veil of secrecy runs counter to the Committee's traditional commitment to transparency and raises serious questions about the integrity of the investigation," Democrats wrote in the memo. According to the Democrats' memo, subpoenas have been sent to: Bank of America, Cathay Bank, JPMorgan Chase, HSBC USA N.A and Mervyn Yan, a former business associate of Hunter Biden. In most cases the subpoenas to the banks span 14 years and relate to six individuals and 10 different entities, House Democrats say. The business entities covered by the subpoenas include several with ties to China and the energy sector, according to those listed in the memo. The subpoena to HSBC was initially sent, and later reissued, after the bank requested an updated cover page, according to a person familiar with the matter. A spokesperson for HSBC declined to comment. CNN has reached out to JP Morgan Chase & Co., and an email address associated with Mervyn Yan for comment. "Cathay Bank, a NASDAQ-listed, U.S. financial institution for over 60 years, has cooperated with the House Committee on Oversight and Accountability's request for information," said a bank spokesperson. "The bank intends to continue to cooperate with the committee." CNN first reported on Comer's subpoena for Bank of America in March to compel the bank to turn over records relating to three of Hunter Biden's business associates. The six subpoenas listed do not include "friendly" subpoenas Comer has issued to some witnesses, including former Twitter employees, who have testified before the committee. "Despite their vast efforts, Committee Republicans have failed to identify any evidence connecting President Biden to or implicating him in the foreign transactions under investigation," according to the memo from Democrats. Comer slammed the Democrats' memo in a statement on Friday. "Ranking Member Raskin has again disclosed Committee's subpoenas in a cheap attempt to thwart cooperation from other witnesses," Comer said. "No one should be fooled by Ranking Member Raskin's games. We have the bank records, and the facts are not good for the Biden family." Democrats also laid out what they called "inconsistencies" among the investigations that Comer and the panel's Republican members are interested in pursuing, arguing they are only interested in probing the Biden family, but not do want to investigate similar issues pertaining to former President Donald Trump and his family. "To date, Chairman Comer has issued six subpoenas and sent 39 letters in the Biden family investigation alone. Notably, Mr. Comer has failed to issue a single document subpoena in any other Committee investigation this Congress," Democrats wrote.