Protesters clash with police officers during a demonstration in Lyon, France, on Thursday, March 23. Taylor Swift performs on stage as she kicked off her "Eras Tour" in Glendale, Arizona, on Friday, March 17. Chinese leader Xi Jinping and Russian President Vladimir Putin shake hands during a meeting in Moscow on Tuesday, March 21. Xi's three-day visit to the Russian capital was an opportunity for the two to showcase their close personal rapport amid the pomp of a state visit — and lay out how they could advance a world order that counters one they see as led by Washington and its democratic allies. This long-exposure photo shows the Terran 1 rocket being launched from Cape Canaveral, Florida, on Wednesday, March 22. Terran 1, which startup Relativity Space called the "world's first 3D-printed rocket," suffered an engine issue after launch and failed to reach orbit. Ukrainian servicemen fire a howitzer at Russian positions near Bakhmut, Ukraine, on Tuesday, March 21. Weeks of Russian attacks have forced thousands of people from Bakhmut and decimated its infrastructure. Ukrainian forces continue to defend the city. Japanese players celebrate after star Shohei Ohtani struck out Mike Trout to defeat Team USA in the championship game of the World Baseball Classic on Tuesday, March 21. It's the third time Japan has won the event. Evelyn Knapp, a supporter of former US President Donald Trump, waves to passersby outside of Trump's Mar-a-Lago estate in Palm Beach, Florida, on Monday, March 20. Trump is the subject of several major investigations as he forges ahead with his 2024 presidential campaign, and he said last weekend that he expected to be arrested in connection with the yearslong investigation into a hush money scheme involving adult film actress Stormy Daniels. But as of Thursday, no decisions on charges had been made by Manhattan district attorney Alvin Bragg. A man washes clothes on the banks of the Brahmaputra river in Guwahati, India, on Wednesday, March 22. A large ship, the Research Vessel Petrel, is partially tipped over at a port in Edinburgh, Scotland, on Thursday, March 23. Thirty-three people were injured when the ship, sitting in a dry dock, was dislodged from its holding. US President Joe Biden awards actress Julia Louis-Dreyfus with the National Medal of Arts during a White House ceremony on Tuesday, March 21. She was one of 12 artists and groups who received the honor on Tuesday. Other recipients included actress Mindy Kaling, designer Vera Wang and singers Bruce Springsteen and Gladys Knight. Protesters gesture toward police officers during a rally in Nairobi, Kenya, on Monday, March 20. Raila Odinga, the country's opposition leader and former prime minister, has called for weekly nationwide protests against the high cost of living. A US Army helicopter transports a howitzer during a joint military drill in Pocheon, South Korea, on Sunday, March 19. Miami's Jasmyne Roberts, left, and Destiny Harden celebrate after they upset No. 1 seed Indiana in the second round of the NCAA Tournament on Monday, March 20. People load their belongings aboard the Iron Ore freight train as it stops at a station in Choum, Mauritania, on Sunday, March 19. A swimming pool sits on the edge of a cliff Thursday, March 16, following a landslide in San Clemente, California. As storms have pummeled the state in quick succession since late December, more soil has become oversaturated and vulnerable to flooding and mudslides. US President Joe Biden holds Hodge, the son of US Rep. Jimmy Gomez, after speaking at a White House event on Thursday, March 23. Players from Indiana and Miami are reflected off the glass of a suite during an NCAA Tournament game in Albany, New York, on Sunday, March 19. Actor Jason Sudeikis, center, is joined by other cast members of the show "Ted Lasso" as they visited the White House briefing room on Monday, March 20. With Sudeikis, from left, are Toheeb Jimoh, Brett Goldstein, Hannah Waddingham and Brendan Hunt. Sudeikis said they are teaming up with US President Joe Biden to make sure Americans know about the options that are available to help with mental health. Members of the French National Assembly hold signs after a no-confidence vote against President Emmanuel Macron's government on Monday, March 20. Two no-confidence votes failed, clearing the way for Macron's pension reforms to be implemented. A migrant squeezes through the fence of a ranch in La Joya, Texas, where she and others were detained by US Border Patrol agents on Tuesday, March 21. They had been hiding in thick brush after crossing the Rio Grande from Mexico. People in Tel Aviv, Israel, protest against their government, and its plans to overhaul the nation's judicial system, on Saturday, March 18. From left, "Succession" cast members Kieran Culkin, Alan Ruck, Brian Cox, Jeremy Strong, Sarah Snook and Nicholas Braun attend the show's season 4 premiere party in New York on Monday, March 20. The Wisconsin women's hockey team celebrates after defeating Ohio State to win the NCAA championship on Sunday, March 19. Wisconsin has now won seven national titles in women's hockey. Dr. Giovannina Anthony, second from left, hugs her attorney after a Wyoming district court judge temporarily blocked a state abortion ban on Wednesday, March 22. Anthony, an OB-GYN, was a plaintiff in a lawsuit challenging the ban. People perform Tarawih prayers at a mosque in Solo City, Indonesia, to mark the start of Ramadan, the Muslim holy month, on Wednesday, March 22. Leon Edwards celebrates after he defeated Kamaru Usman to defend his UFC welterweight title on Saturday, March 18. Edwards won by majority decision. Hot-air balloons float above the Pyramid of the Moon in Teotihuacán, Mexico, on Monday, March 20. Miguel Aparicio holds a young bull in the back of a car in La Calera, Colombia, on Thursday, February 16. Aparicio, who runs a farm animal shelter, had to hop in the car and chase after the calf after it ran away. Joe Munden Jr., right, celebrates after Fairleigh Dickinson upset No. 1 seed Purdue in the first round of the NCAA Tournament on Friday, March 17. It is only the second time in history that a No. 16 seed has defeated a No. 1. A worker dries vermicelli at a factory in Prayagraj, India, on Wednesday, March 22. Vermicelli is used to make traditional sweet dishes during the Muslim holy month of Ramadan. Brown University freshman Olivia Pichardo became the first woman to play in a Division I baseball game on Friday, March 17. She pinch-hit in the bottom of the ninth, grounding out to first base, during a game against Bryant in Providence, Rhode Island. After the game, Pichardo said she wants more girls to know it is possible for them to play baseball: "I just hope that young girls can watch and see that this is possible; that it's not just a dream but it is a tangible goal they can have." Britain's Prince William meets with members of the Polish military while making an unannounced trip to a military base near the Ukrainian-Polish border on Wednesday, March 22. He also met with British troops stationed there, praising both groups for their "cooperation in the support of the people of Ukraine and their freedom." Security personnel make way for former Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan, center, as he arrives to appear in court in Lahore, Pakistan, on Friday, March 17. A top Pakistani court suspended an arrest warrant for Khan, giving him a reprieve to travel to Islamabad and face charges in a graft case without being detained. Saint Mary's Mitchell Saxen, left, and UConn's Donovan Clingan compete for a ball during an NCAA Tournament game on Sunday, March 19. Wolverhampton's Ruben Neves takes a shot during a Premier League match against Leeds in Wolverhampton, England, on Saturday, March 18. Caroline Ouko, the mother of Irvo Otieno, holds a portrait of her son during a news conference in Dinwiddie, Virginia, on Thursday, March 16. Otieno, 28, was smothered to death earlier this month at a state mental health facility, a prosecutor said. Seven Henrico County sheriff's deputies and three hospital security guards have been charged with second-degree murder. Otieno's family said the aspiring rapper was having a mental health crisis when he died. Elizabeth Willson and Garland Phillips have a picnic breakfast amongst the blooming cherry blossoms in Washington, DC, on Monday, March 20. See last week in 36 photos.