Conchas: The traditional concha or pan dulce (sweet bread) is a beloved option in many Mexican coffee shops and bakeries. Chilaquiles: Usually consumed for breakfast, chilaquiles are made with stale tortillas that are cut into strips, fried and tossed in a red or green sauce for a balance of crispy and soft at once. Tecolota: This dish takes the traditional chilaquiles dish up another level. The tecolota involves a toasty bolillo roll, filled with refried beans, chilaquiles, along with cheese, crema, cilantro and red onions. Al pastor: Al pastor loosely translates to "shepherd-style." Here, chef Adrian Reyes cuts small slices of marinated pork cooked on a spit at El Tizoncito restaurant in Mexico City. The meat is often served in tacos with pineapple. Barbacoa: Historically, barbacoa references the style of barbecue by the Taino people of the Caribbean. In Mexican cooking, barbacoa refers to the slow-cooking of meat over an open flame or in a hole in the ground. Mariscos: Ceviche is a common seafood option in Mexico's coastal regions. Raw fish or shrimp is cured in citrus juice, accented frequently by sliced rings of jalapeño, cubed cucumber and a chilled tomato-based broth. Burritos: Northern Mexico is the birthplace of the burrito. Here, burritos are made up of a large, flour tortilla filled with just a few ingredients at most, such as carne guisada (braised beef), beans or barbacoa. Birria: Birria is the quintessential dish of Jalisco and in recent years, it's become wildly popular in the United States and beyond. Birria is a spicy meat stew — traditionally goat but increasingly beef as well. Carnitas: Carnitas is the term that refers to pork that's slow braised for several hours in its own fat until it reaches its peak state of tenderness and then fried to crispiness. Torta: The torta is what most would consider the official Mexican sandwich. Made with a bolillo — a crusty white bread roll — that can be stuffed with any manner of marinated protein. Torta ahogada: This is the "drowned" version of the torta popular in Guadalajara. Featuring marinated fried pork, this sandwich is submerged in a tomato and vinegar-based bath seasoned with spices. Tamales: A typical favorite dish prepared during Christmastime, tamales are just about as varied as the taco. A dab of masa is spread over a corn husk or banana leaf, then filled with proteins such as marinated pork or chicken. Pozole: A dish that can be traced back to the days of the Aztecs, pozole is a deliciously fulfilling, hearty and restorative soup made with hominy kernels and pork (though chicken or vegan options are increasing in popularity). Menudo: Another hearty stew-type dish favored to cure the weekend hangover, menudo comes with beef tripe and hominy simmered in a broth turned red by a melody of red chiles, oregano and garlic. Pambazo: A member of the broad torta category, the pambazo bread is the drier relative of the bolillo. Expect this to be stuffed with potatoes and chorizo drenched in a spicy red guajillo sauce and fried. Mole: Mole is widely considered one of Mexico's most iconic dishes, ranging in color from rich brown and fiery red to verdant green, yellow and black — just to name a few. The word mole comes from the Aztec word molli, which means "sauce." Cemita: The cemita is a specialty of Puebla and features a sesame seed-covered, brioche-like roll filled with battered and fried cutlets of protein such as pork, beef or chicken and toppings. Cochinita pibil: This dish involves a suckling pig marinated with bitter orange juice seasoned with achiote seed and spices and then wrapped in a banana leaf to be slow-roasted for hours. Tlayuda: The tlayuda makes a delicious snack in Oaxaca. Composed of a flattened, crunchy tortilla, it's usually topped with refried beans, chorizo (or some other protein), ropes of Oaxaca cheese and garnishes. Chiles en nogada: This dish from Puebla is often associated with Mexican Independence Day because the dark green poblano chile, a white walnut-based cream sauce (nogada) and red pomegranate seeds make up the colors of the Mexican flag. Chapulines: Deriving from the Nahuatl language, chapulines (grasshoppers) can be frequently found dried and toasted and flavored with just a hint of lime juice, garlic and chile. Elote: Grilled corn on the cob that is slathered in mayonnaise, cheese, chile powder and lime is a popular snack. Paletas: A summertime treat with origins in the state of Michoacán, the paleta is a cream or water-based ice pop that is combined with berries, cookies, nuts or tropical fruits — sometimes dusted with chile powder.