Our live coverage of Russia's war in Ukraine has moved here. Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis is making a significant shift in tone toward the war in Ukraine, calling Russian President Vladimir Putin a “war criminal” who should be held accountable, in another portion of a Piers Morgan interview teased in the New York Post. DeSantis had previously labeled the war a “territorial dispute.” DeSantis’ comments to Morgan come after he fielded criticism from Republicans including Gov. Chris Sununu, Sen. Lindsey Graham and Sen. Marco Rubio for saying US support of Ukraine is not of “vital” national interest via in a statement to Fox News' Tucker Carlson.  In his fiercest rebuke of Putin yet, DeSantis told Morgan he thinks his statement to Carlson has “been mischaracterized.” “Obviously, Russia invaded (last year) — that was wrong. They invaded Crimea and took that in 2014 — That was wrong,” DeSantis said.  Addressing the criticism for the first time, DeSantis attempted to clarify during the interview. “What I’m referring to is where the fighting is going on now which is that eastern border region Donbas, and then Crimea, and you have a situation where Russia has had that. I don’t think legitimately but they had. There’s a lot of ethnic Russians there. So, that’s some difficult fighting and that’s what I was referring to and so it wasn’t that I thought Russia had a right to that, and so if I should have made that more clear, I could have done it,” he said.  Morgan said he asked DeSantis if he thought Ukrainians would take issue with him labeling the war a “territorial dispute.”  DeSantis said in response: “If I could snap my fingers, I’d give it back to Ukraine 100%. But the reality is what is America’s involvement in terms of escalating with more weapons, and certainly ground troops I think would be a mistake. So, that was the point I was trying to make but Russia was wrong to invade. They were wrong to take Crimea.”  President Joe Biden has made clear he will not send US troops to Ukraine to take part in the conflict.  Ultimately, DeSantis told Morgan he thinks Ukraine will prevail in the war. “I do not think it’s going to end with Putin being victorious. I do not think the Ukrainian Government is going to be toppled by him and I think that’s a good thing,” DeSantis said.  China’s Foreign Minister Qin Gang said Wednesday his country's relationship with Russia could be “even more precious in the face of rampant unilateralism and hegemonism" as he praised President Xi Jinping’s trip to Moscow.  Qin described the relations between China and Russia as representing “the correct direction of historical development” and having “world significance beyond the scope of the two sides,” according to a statement released after Xi's state visit.   China and Russia will continue to uphold “good-neighborliness and mutual trust,” as Xi’s decision to choose Russia as his first foreign visit in his new presidency was a political decision made after careful consideration, Qin said. In addition to praising the cooperation and friendship with Russia, Qin reiterated China’s stance on what the statement describes as the "Ukrainian crisis." “Certain countries deliberately obstruct peace talks for their own geopolitical interests, and even concocted all kinds of rumors and fallacies to attack and discredit China,” Qin said. He added that China is “neither the maker nor the party” involved in the crisis but “an advocate” that supports a political settlement and promotes peace talks. The statement did not name the country obstructing peace talks. ##Xi In Moscow## Russian missile strikes killed at least eight people in the Kyiv region and injured nearly three dozen people in Zaporizhzhia, where strikes hit residential buildings, officials said. Heavy fighting also continues in the eastern part of Ukraine. The latest wave of attacks follows meetings this week between Russian President Vladimir Putin and Chinese leader Xi Jinping in Moscow. Here are the top headlines to get up to speed: Russian strikes: At least eight people were killed in the Kyiv region following a wave of Russian attacks with Iran-made Shahed drones, according to Ukrainian authorities. In Zaporizhzhia, at least one person was killed and 34 were injured, Ukraine’s State Emergency Service said. At least 21 drones were launched shortly before midnight local time on Tuesday, 16 of which were shot down, according to the Ukrainian air force. Fighting in eastern Ukraine: The town of Avdiivka in the Donetsk region is coming under heavy attacks by Russian artillery and rocket systems, according to the head of the local military administration. Ukraine says the offensive capacity of Russian forces in and around Bakhmut is diminishing. According to the Ukrainian military, Russian forces are continuing to expend large numbers of men trying to re-take the city. Zelensky visits troops: President Volodymyr Zelensky paid an unannounced visit to the eastern Donbas region. He said it was distressing to see the aftermath of Russian bombardments there and thanked soldiers for their bravery. The president also visited wounded troops at a hospital near the front lines, some of whom helped defend the city of Bakhmut, according to a statement from the Presidency. Xi-Putin meetings: The two leaders made a sweeping affirmation of their alignment on a host of issues — and shared mistrust of the United States — in a lengthy statement following talks that took place under the shadow of Russia’s onslaught in Ukraine. The meetings yielded no breakthrough in resolving the conflict, but both leaders called for the cessation of actions that “increase tensions” and “prolong” the war. Find the biggest takeaways from Xi's visit to Moscow here. Patriot missile system: Ukrainian soldiers have been training intensively on how to use the Patriot weapons system over the past 10 weeks in Oklahoma, instructed by US Army trainers at the base. The system is now set to be deployed in Ukraine in the coming weeks – much sooner than anticipated. Additional aid for Ukraine: Japan will provide $30 million to help Ukraine acquire non-lethal equipment, Prime Minister Fumio Kishida said, according to public broadcaster NHK. The International Monetary Fund also has agreed to supply Ukraine with a $15.6 billion loan to help stave off financial woes due to the war, it said in a statement. Where things stand with NATO: Sweden’s parliament formally approved the country’s accession to NATO on Wednesday, the government said in a statement. Sweden requested to join the military alliance alongside Finland last year, citing Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, but its application is currently being stalled by Turkey and Hungary. Nuclear threat: The risk of a nuclear conflict is now at its highest level in decades, Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov said, according to state news agency TASS. He said Moscow and Washington currently have no common ground on the new Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty, according to state outlet RIA Novosti. Putin said he was suspending Moscow's participation in the nuclear arms reduction treaty with the US last month. Also in the news: Spanish Prime Minister Pedro Sánchez will meet with Chinese President Xi Jinping on March 31, according to a senior aide. They are expected to discuss Russia’s war on Ukraine. ##Catch Up## At least eight people were killed in a Russian drone strike in the Kyiv region, Ukraine's state emergency service said in a statement on Wednesday.  "As of 18:00 (6:00 p.m.), 8 people died, 7 people were injured and 1 person was rescued," the statement read. "Four people are likely to be under the rubble." Earlier in the day, the state emergency service told CNN a Russian drone strike hit a residential building in the town of Rzhyshchiv, which is about 50 miles (85 km) southeast of the capital of Kyiv. Andrii Niebytov, the Kyiv region police chief, previously said that a drone had struck a dormitory building. Police and emergency services evacuated more than 200 people after the strike, Niebytov said. ##Russian Strikes## At least one person was killed and 34 were injured by missile strikes in Zaporizhzhia, Ukraine’s State Emergency Service said on Wednesday.  Among the injured are three children, it said. According to the Ukrainian prosecutor’s office, Russian forces fired at least six missiles at Zaporizhzhia and the strikes caused significant damage to civilian infrastructure. Mykhailo Podolyak, a senior Ukrainian official and adviser to President Volodymyr Zelensky, previously said the strikes deliberately targeted civilians. ##Russian Strikes## The risk of a nuclear conflict is now at its highest level in decades, Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov said Wednesday, according to state news agency TASS. "I would not like to indulge in a discussion whether the probability of a nuclear conflict is high today, but in any case it is higher than anything that we have seen over the past decades, let's put it this way," Ryabkov said during a discussion on the platform of the Valdai discussion club, according to TASS. Ryabkov reiterated that Moscow is not departing "from the key provisions, doctrinal and political ones." He said non-nuclear states, especially those not aligned with the United States, should "more loudly to call to order politicians in the Western capitals, including Washington, who have absolutely lost their sense of reality." President Vladimir Putin said he was suspending his country's participation in the New START nuclear arms reduction treaty with the United States during his much-delayed annual State of the Nation Address to the Federal Assembly last month.  Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said Wednesday it was distressing to see the aftermath of Russian bombardments after he made an unannounced visit to the eastern Donbas region.  “It is distressing to look at the cities of Donbas, to which Russia has brought terrible suffering and ruin,” Zelensky said in his nightly address. “The almost constant, hourly air-alert siren in Kramatorsk, the constant threat of shelling, the constant threat to life..." “Right there, in Donbas, in the Kharkiv region — wherever Russian evil has come, it is obvious that the terrorist state cannot be stopped by anything other than one thing — our victory,” he added.  Zelensky said he felt there was hope in every eastern Ukrainian city that was not under occupation, adding that it was an honor to support those closest to the front.  “I started from the front, from the Bakhmut area. It is an honor for me to support our warriors who are defending the country in the toughest frontline conditions,” he said. “I presented state awards, thanked our soldiers for their bravery, for their resilience, for Ukraine — which we are preserving thanks to such heroes, thanks to each and every one of them who is fighting against Russian evil.” The Ukrainian president also visited injured soldiers to pay tribute.  “I wished them — and I'm sure on behalf of all of you, all of our people — a speedy recovery,” he said. “I thanked the doctors and nurses. And now I want to thank everyone who supports our soldiers recovering from injuries. Who helps with everything necessary, our doctors, everyone who works for rehabilitation after injuries.” He finished his address by marking the beginning of Ramadan and remembering the Crimean Tatars, currently under Russian occupation.  “May the power of prayer in this holy month help us cleanse Ukraine of Russian godless evil, of those who truly believe in nothing, and that is why they are capable of such terror," he said. “Let the next Ramadan begin in peace and on the entire Ukrainian land free from Russia. Ramadan Mubarak!” Ukraine says the offensive capacity of Russian forces in and around Bakhmut is diminishing, but cautions that it remains one of the areas where the fiercest fighting is ongoing. “The Russian Federation continues its armed aggression against Ukraine, focusing its main efforts on attempts to completely seize Donetsk and Luhansk regions within the administrative borders,” the Ukrainian military’s General Staff said in an evening update on Wednesday. “The fiercest fighting is taking place in the southern and northern parts of Bakhmut.” “In the Bakhmut direction, the enemy continues to conduct offensive actions, but its offensive potential is decreasing,” it added. According to the Ukrainian military, Russian forces are continuing to expend large numbers of men trying to re-take the city. “The enemy keeps trying to take the city, losing a significant amount of manpower, weapons and military equipment,” it said on Wednesday. “Our defenders have been repelling numerous enemy attacks around the clock in the areas of Bakhmut, Bohdanivka and Predtechyne.” The Ukrainian military went on to say Moscow’s armies were on the defensive in some areas in the southern part of Ukraine. “The enemy is conducting defensive actions in the Zaporizhzhia and Kherson directions. Areas near the contact line came under fire,” it said. US Secretary of State Antony Blinken said Wednesday that any European country that is a party to the International Criminal Court (ICC) should arrest Russian President Vladimir Putin if he visits. “I think that anyone who is a party to the court and has obligations should fulfill their obligations,” Blinken said in response to a question from Republican Sen. Lindsey Graham at a Senate Appropriations Committee hearing. Blinken would not say whether the US authorities would turn the Russian president over to the ICC if he were to come to this country, noting that the US is not a party to the court. “I don’t think he has any plans to travel here soon,” Blinken said. Putin has scarcely left Russia in recent years, and he has not traveled to the US since 2015. Some more context: Last week, the ICC issued an arrest warrant against Putin for his role in a vast Kremlin-wide effort to forcibly deport Ukrainian children into Russia. A report released in mid-February from the US State Department-backed Conflict Observatory by the Yale Humanitarian Research Lab found that more than 6,000 children — ranging in age from mere months old to 17 — have been in Russian custody at some point during the course of the war, although the "total number of children is not known and is likely significantly higher than 6,000." It identified 43 facilities that are a part of the vast network where the children were sent, stretching “from one end of Russia to the other," including Russian-occupied Crimea, the "eastern Pacific Coast — closer to Alaska than it is to Moscow," and Siberia, Yale Humanitarian Research Lab's Nathaniel Raymond said. "The primary purpose of the camps appears to be political reeducation," he said, noting that at least 32 of the facilities identified in the report "appear to be engaged in systematic re-education efforts that expose children from Ukraine to Russia-centric academic, cultural, patriotic, and in two cases, specifically military education." Sweden’s parliament formally approved the country’s accession to NATO on Wednesday, the government said in a statement.   The Nordic country requested to join the military alliance alongside its neighbor Finland last year, citing Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, but its application must be ratified by all 30 current member states before it can become a member itself.  Where things stand: The memberships of both countries are currently being stalled by Turkey and Hungary, both of which have yet to ratify. While Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan announced last week that his parliament would begin ratifying Finland’s NATO bid, and Hungary’s ruling party said it would also approve Finland’s accession, neither country has begun the process for Sweden.  Erdogan has said Turkey will not change its approach to Sweden unless “positive steps” are taken. The country has accused Sweden of harboring members of terror groups, something Sweden denies.  The Biden administration stopped short of accusing Russia of a missile strike targeting civilians in Zaporizhzhia, Ukraine, but said it “certainly” is consistent with previous such attacks.  CNN has reported at least one person was killed and 32 injured Wednesday, with a senior Ukrainian official calling it “a specific deliberate strike at a residential building.” “It certainly could be” targeted at civilians," National Security Council coordinator for strategic communications John Kirby told CNN’s Kate Bolduan. “It's obviously right out of the Russian playbook to target civilian infrastructure and to show no regard for avoiding the targeting of civilians. So it absolutely could be,” Kirby said, adding that the US does not yet have “tactile information specifically about that strike.”  Kirby also discussed news that the US is expediting the shipment of Patriot missile systems and Abrams to Ukraine. While he said there has “always” been a sense of urgency, he said the Ukrainians are reacting “well” to training and that the accelerated delivery is a “good thing.” He reiterated that there is “no change” to the US policy on sending F-16 jets at this time.  “The weeks and months ahead are going to be critical. We want to make sure that the Ukrainians have everything that they need in order to be successful,” he said. The focus of the next weeks, Kirby said, are the “Four A’s”: armor, artillery, air defense, and ammunition, pointing to “more open terrain, combined arms warfare” ahead. Pressed by Bolduan on the possibility of China arming Ukraine, Kirby said there is “no indication they are moving in that direction or have made a decision in that regard.” He said he is “not aware” of any plans by China’s President Xi Jinping to speak with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky but reiterated the US hope that such a conversation will take place. ##Russian Strikes## Mike McCaul, the chair of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, will hold a hearing next Wednesday on “Oversight, Transparency, and Accountability of Ukraine Assistance,” the committee announced Wednesday. The acting inspector generals from the State Department, Defense Department and the US Agency for International Development are slated to testify.  The billions of dollars in US assistance to Ukraine were expected to come under increased scrutiny by the Republican-led House.  The inspectors general have not announced any instances of misuse of US provided funds or weapons. There are dozens of ongoing projects from the Office of Inspector General related to oversight of US assistance to Ukraine. Some background: On Monday, US Secretary of State Antony Blinken announced the 34th drawdown of arms and equipment for Ukraine valued at $350 million. The US has committed more than $32 billion in Presidential Drawdown funds to aid Ukraine since Russia's full-scale invasion began more than one year ago. Estonian Prime Minister Kaja Kallas said NATO countries must prepare for a long war in Ukraine, calling on allies to increase defense spending. “Russia has prepared for a long confrontation and so must we,” Kallas tweeted on Wednesday. The Estonian prime minister urged NATO countries to increase defense spending beyond the 2% threshold. “Estonia has increased its defence budget significantly, it will reach 3% of GDP by 2024,” she said. “2% of GDP on defence spending must be the floor, not the ceiling.” At least one person was killed and 32 others were injured by missile strikes in Zaporizhzhia, Ukraine’s State Emergency Service said Wednesday. “As of now, 32 people have been injured as a result of an enemy missile attack between two nine-story buildings: 27 people have been hospitalized, including 3 children,” it said. “5 people were treated on the spot. One person died.” According to the Ukrainian prosecutor’s office, Russian forces fired at least six missiles at Zaporizhzhia. The type of missiles that were used are "currently being established," the prosecutor's office said in a statement. The prosecutor’s office went on to say the missiles had caused significant damage to civilian infrastructure and some people are still missing. “One of the missiles hit between two high-rise buildings, partially destroying apartments and balconies, damaging roofs and breaking windows,” it said. “The blast wave and debris also damaged other nearby residential buildings, cars and other civilian infrastructure in the city."  Mykhailo Podolyak, a senior Ukrainian official and adviser to President Volodymyr Zelensky, said the strikes deliberately targeted civilians. “Zaporizhzhia. Today. A specific deliberate strike at a residential building. To kill civilians. No 'military' nearby,” Podolyak posted on Telegram Wednesday. “Once again, the obvious. 'Russian world' came to kill – plain brazenly."  Ukraine’s State Emergency Service said rescue operations are still underway. ##Russian Strikes## Moscow and Washington currently have no common ground on the new Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty (START), Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov said Wednesday in remarks at the Valdai Forum, according to state outlet RIA Novosti. “There is simply no common ground here. I don’t think that there are any grounds now for discussing the New START issue with the United States,” Ryabkov said of the agreement. According to Ryabkov, Russia cannot even consider notifications from the American side under the treaty, because from a formal point of view, the contract has been suspended. “This would be a violation of federal law on our part," he said. Ryabkov added that Moscow’s condition for returning to START discussions is “a change in the US hostile course towards Russia." The American counterparts have to “accept the reality for what it is," he added. Some more context: Last month, Russian President Vladimir Putin said he was suspending his country's participation in the nuclear arms reduction treaty with the United States, imperiling the last remaining pact that regulates the world's two largest nuclear arsenals. Putin made the declaration in his much-delayed annual state of the nation address to Russia's National Assembly. Hours after Putin's speech, Russia's Foreign Ministry said the decision to suspend participation in the treaty was "reversible." The treaty puts limits on the number of deployed intercontinental-range nuclear weapons that both the US and Russia can have. It was last extended in early 2021 for five years, meaning the two sides would soon need to begin negotiating on another arms control agreement. Rescuers in Zaporizhzhia are searching for survivors after Russian forces fired at least six missiles at the eastern Ukrainian city, the Ukrainian prosecutor’s office said in a statement on Wednesday. The officials added that the missiles caused extensive damage to residential high-rise buildings. “One of the missiles hit between two high-rise buildings, partially destroying apartments and balconies, damaging roofs and breaking windows,” the statement said. “The blast wave and debris also damaged other nearby residential buildings, cars and other civilian infrastructure in the city." Here are some photos showing the aftermath of Russia's latest round of missile strikes in the eastern Ukrainian city of Zaporizhzhia. CNN's Svitlana Vlasova and Olga Voitovych in Kyiv contributed to this post. ##Russian Strikes## Moscow will not leave unanswered the UK's intention to supply Ukraine with shells that include depleted uranium, the Russian Foreign Ministry said in a statement on Wednesday. "This decision will not remain without serious consequences both for Russian-British bilateral relations and at the international level, where the initial reaction from multilateral structures already indicates the complete rejection of London's plans. We will not leave such actions unanswered," the statement read. "Violating the fundamental norms of international law, London must not forget that it will have to bear full responsibility for this," the statement added. On Tuesday, the UK defense minister said Russia is “deliberately trying to disinform” since depleted uranium "is a standard component" for shells and has nothing to do with nuclear weapons. The comment from the ministry came after Putin warned the UK against supplying the ammunition. Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said on Wednesday that the UK's shipment of depleted uranium munitions to Ukraine would be a step toward further escalation of the conflict.  Some background: According to the International Atomic Energy Agency, depleted uranium is used in ammunition designed to pierce armor plating because it becomes sharper on impact with a target. It is “considerably less radioactive than natural uranium,” according to the agency. CNN's Jessie Gretener, Darya Tarasova and Jack Guy contributed to this post. A missile strike on a residential building in Zaporizhzhia has killed at least one and left 25 people in the hospital, Anatolii Kurtiev, acting mayor of the city of Zaporizhzhia, said. "Unfortunately, one injured person, who was in serious condition, died," Kurtiev said on Telegram. "According to updated information, 25 people are currently in hospitals. 3 people are in serious condition, 19 are in moderate condition." Earlier, the region's military administration said two Russian missiles hit a residential high-rise building in city Zaporizhzhia. Footage posted to social media Wednesday shows extensive damage and a fire at a residential block in Zaporizhzhia, apparently from a missile strike. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky posted about the attack on the social media app Telegram, saying Russia was "shelling the city with bestial savagery." ##Russian Strikes## Chinese leader Xi Jinping departed Moscow after a three-day visit, attacks on one Donetsk town are intensifying and Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky is visiting troops on the front lines. Here's what happening: Tokyo and Beijing stake out positions: While Xi met with Russian President Vladimir Putin, Japanese Prime Minister Fumio Kishida was in Kyiv meeting with Zelensky. Both East Asian leaders struck agreements with their hosts, but none of the accords are expected to impact the war in any meaningful way. However, a Ukrainian official told CNN discussions are underway with China to organize a call between Xi and Zelensky to discuss Beijing's peace proposal. More strikes across Ukraine: Overnight drone attacks in the region of Kyiv left four people dead. Russian missiles later struck a residential block in Zaporizhzhia, Ukrainian authorities said. Avdiivka under assault: The town of Avdiivka in the Donetsk region is being heavily bombarded by Russian forces, a local Ukrainian leader told CNN. Heavy fighting is raging on the town's outskirts, and evacuations have become exceedingly difficult for the estimated 2,000 residents left there. There are concerns the town could become the next Bakhmut. Zelensky's trip east: Also in Donetsk, the Ukrainian president surprised troops on the front lines, according to video released by his office. Exactly where is unclear. Standing in a large warehouse at an undisclosed location, Zelensky handed out awards to servicemen who had fought in Bakhmut. Financial assistance may be coming: The International Monetary Fund agreed to provide Ukraine a $15.6 billion loan to help stave off financial woes due to the war with Russia, though the package must still be approved by the IMF's executive board. ##Catch Up## ##Xi In Moscow## Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky paid a surprise visit to wounded troops at a hospital in the Donetsk region in eastern Ukraine near the front lines. Among the wounded Ukrainian servicemen were some of the defenders of Bakhmut, according to a statement from the Presidency. "Thank you for defending Ukraine, I wish you a speedy recovery," Zelensky said as he presented awards to members of the military. According to video released by the President's office, Zelensky said from a warehouse at an undisclosed location that he was "honored to be here today, in the east of our country, in Donbas, and to award our heroes, to thank you, to shake hands. Thank you for protecting the state, sovereignty, the east of Ukraine." Two Russian missiles hit a residential high-rise building in the Ukrainian city of Zaporizhzhia, the region's military administration said. It's unclear if there were any casualties. Footage posted to social media Wednesday shows extensive damage and a fire at a residential block in Zaporizhzhia, apparently from a missile strike. One video showed the moment of impact, several floors up.  Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky posted about the attack on the social media app Telegram, saying Russia was "shelling the city with bestial savagery." "Residential areas where ordinary people and children live are being fired at," Zelensky said. ##Russian Strikes## The town of Avdiivka in the eastern Ukrainian region of Donetsk is coming under heavy attacks by Russian artillery and rocket systems, according to the head of the local military administration. Avdiivka, a town with a large smelting plant just north of Donetsk, has been shelled persistently since the Russian invasion began. However, in recent weeks Russian ground attacks in the area have intensified. Some Ukrainian officials have said that the town could become a second Bakhmut, the mostly abandoned city where Ukrainian and Russian forces have fought for weeks to what is, at this moment, a bloody stalemate. Local official Vitalii Barabash told CNN that "the situation is really changing." "There is more shelling, more massive shelling, more rocket attacks on the town. The number of assault operations around the town is also increasing many times over. There is more shelling of positions, more rocket attacks, more air and missile attacks, both in the city and on positions," Barabash said. Fighting along the city's outskirts: Barabash said there had been massive shelling of the central part of the town late Tuesday. The rest of the night, he said, was "relatively calm." However, the defense line around the city was "shelled all night." "There was heavy shelling, and small arms fighting was going on in all directions, from the south and the north." Geolocated social media videos over the past week indicate that Russian forces have moved closer to access routes from Avdiivka to the north and west.  Barabash said that on Wednesday morning there were more shelling and artillery attacks, killing one woman. Evacuation difficulties: Civilian evacuations are continuing but the way out of town is a "road of death," with the stretch of road monitored by Russian troops who "immediately open fire" Barabash said. He added that 180 people left the town in the last three weeks and Ukrainian officials estimate that there are some 2,000 people left in Avdiivka. Among them, according to Barabash, are six children. One child evacuated Tuesday, and authorities plan to evacuate another one on Wednesday. Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said he is not surprised by what he called a "hostile" reaction from Western nations to the visit between Russian President Vladimir Putin and Chinese leader Xi Jinping this week. "As for the reaction of the countries of the collective West, the fact that on almost all issues this reaction is of an unfriendly, deeply hostile nature is no secret to anyone. The coverage of this important visit is no exception," Peskov said. "Of course, the most important thing is not the reaction of the West, but it's the results of the negotiations that took place. The main thing is the results of the state visit itself." Peskov's comments came after John Kirby, the White House National Security Council spokesman, told CNN's Christiane Amanpour that Beijing and Moscow are deepening their relationship in large part due to their mutual interest in challenging the US' global influence. Kirby also pushed back on China's claim that it had staked out an impartial position regarding the war in Ukraine. ##Xi In Moscow## Russian President Vladimir Putin and his Chinese counterpart, Xi Jinping, did not discuss a Kyiv-proposed peace plan to end the war in Ukraine during their visit this week, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said Wednesday. Peskov said that Kyiv’s proposal was a matter of Sino-Ukraine relations. The 10-point peace plan was first pre