Coinbase, a publicly traded US crypto exchange, said it received a notice from the Securities and Exchange Commission warning of potential violations. The SEC "Wells notice" is typically a precursor to enforcement action against a company. The notice from the securities watchdog didn't detail what assets were under scrutiny or what the possible violations consist of. "Although we don’t take this development lightly, we are very confident in the way we run our business – the same business we presented to the SEC in order for us to become a public company in 2021," the company said in a statement. "If necessary, we welcome the opportunity for Coinbase and the broader crypto community to get clarity in court." The company said its platform and services would continue to operate as usual. The development is the latest move by an increasingly aggressive regulatory body to rein in crypto in the wake of multiple bankruptcies and scandals in the digital asset space last year. Calls for greater regulatory clarity and scrutiny have escalated since November, when crypto exchange FTX collapsed and set off an investor panic. Senator Elizabeth Warren, a longtime critic of the Fed Chair Jerome Powell, spoke out against the central bank's latest rate hike. "When the Fed uses language like we're trying to cool the economy or slow down the economy, the translation behind that is, 'we're trying to increase unemployment," Warren told CNN's Jake Tapper. Asked whether she had ever advised President Biden to fire Powell, Warren declined to answers specifically but reiterated that she believes Powell shouldn't have been reconfirmed. "I think he's doing a really terrible job." "What he's trying to do is get 2 million people laid off," she said, suggesting the Fed appears to be angling the economy toward a recession. "That's the direction he's trying to push this. I think he is a dangerous man to have in this job." Earlier Wednesday, CNN reported exclusively that Warren, Senator Bernie Sanders and 10 other lawmakers are cranking up the pressure on the Federal Reserve following the collapse of Silicon Valley Bank. The combined weighting of Apple and Microsoft in the S&P 500 has reached its highest level on record, at 13.3%, in part driven by turmoil in the banking sector that sent investors rushing to seek refuge for their cash.  The two tech companies' combined weighting in the S&P 500 has grown over the past decade, powered by an industry-wide run that helped establish tech names as market leaders. Apple and Microsoft's combined weighting was just 4.5% in 2009, according to data from Howard Silverblatt, senior index analyst at S&P Dow Jones Indices. The rest of the famed FAANG crew — Facebook-parent Meta, Amazon, Netflix and Google-parent Alphabet — haven't fared as well. While Amazon and Alphabet are among the companies with the largest market values in the S&P 500, their weightings still trail behind Apple's and Microsoft's. Calling the rapid collapse of Silicon Valley Bank a "new phenomenon," US Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen said the circumstances that led to it could very well happen again. "The Silicon Valley Bank situation showed an overwhelmingly rapid run on a bank. We've never seen deposits flee at this rate," Yellen said Wednesday during a Senate hearing on Financial Services and General Government. "May depositors were tech firms that work with venture capitalists that also bank. It's essentially shouting fire in a movie theater," she said. "Now in the world that we live in, although this was a small community and a disproportionate share of Silicon Valley bank deposits, this kind of thing may more readily happen." Yellen said SVB's plight could mean that stress tests on banks and some of the assumptions that go into modeling the pace at which deposits might flee banks might need to be "updated and rethought." "This is a new phenomenon. We haven't seen this before." Stocks fell sharply on Wednesday after the Federal Reserve reaffirmed its dedication to tamping down inflation. Markets had been fickle all day, before settling in the red as investors digested the central bank's quarter-point rate hike and looked for clues about the state of the banking sector meltdown.  Investors were heartened by the Fed's strong hints that its aggressive pace of interest rate hikes would come to an end soon. Still, the central bank also warned that rate cuts aren't coming this year. “The Fed just hiked rates two weeks after the biggest bank failures since 2008. If they aren't blinking now, there shouldn't be any doubt about their commitment to tame inflation," said Scott Duba, CIO at Prime Capital Investment Advisors. A decline in regional bank stocks weighed markets down. The SPDR S&P Regional Banking ETF, which tracks small and midsized bank stocks, fell about 2.4%. Investors continued to search for safer places to keep their cash. Gold futures rose, as did US oil benchmark West Texas Intermediate. Wall Street is also watching for the Bank of England's own interest rate decision, due Thursday. Treasury yields fell after jumping earlier in the day. The Dow fell about 532 points, or 1.6%. The S&P 500 slipped about 1.7%. The Nasdaq Composite declined 1.6%. Stocks fell Wednesday after Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell warned of tight financial conditions. The Dow declined about 0.7%. The S&P 500 fell about 0.5%. The Nasdaq Composite slipped about 0.3%. Markets initially rose after the central bank announced it would raise rates by the expected quarter point, but wavered after Powell said it's unlikely the Fed will cut rates this year. Powell largely declined to make projections about the banking turmoil but said the Fed needs to "strengthen supervision and regulation" of the financial sector. The Fed is fighting inflation by slowing down the economy, and that means unemployment will rise. By the Fed's own prediction, the unemployment rate will rise to 4.5% by the end of the year, up from 3.6% last month. That could translate to more than 1 million more Americans out of work by the end of 2023. Fed Chair Jerome Powell said that's an uncertain but acceptable outcome: "We have to bring inflation down to 2%," he said in response to a question by CNN's Nicole Goodkind. "There are real costs to bring it down to 2%. But the costs of failing are much higher." "If the central bank doesn't get inflation back in place ... you can have a long series of years where inflation is high and volatile. And it's hard to invest capital. It's hard for an economy to perform well. And we're looking to avoid that," Powell said. "We're very focused on getting inflation down. We know in the longer run that that is the thing that will most benefit the people we serve," Powell added. "You can have very, very long expansions without high inflation. We had several of those. And they're very good for people." In response to the collapse of two banks and nearly two weeks of banking turmoil, Fed Chair Jerome Powell said that "it's clear we do need to strengthen supervision and regulation," noting the central bank would doing an internal review. "At a basic level, Silicon Valley Bank management failed badly," Powell said. "We now know that supervisors saw these risks and intervened ... My only interest is that we identify what went wrong here." But Powell said the Fed wouldn't jump to conclusions, saying it would be "inappropriate for me at this stage to offer my views on what the answers might be." What happened to the Fed sticking to its guns and fighting inflation at all costs? Well, the problems in the banking sector may be doing the Fed's work for it, negating the need for more rate hikes, Fed Chair Jerome Powell said Wednesday. That's because banks may stop lending money to some borrowers, prevent some businesses from getting loans and issue fewer mortgages. That would slow the economy and potentially lead to layoffs and a housing market slowdown. The Fed, in its fight against inflation, has been trying to do exactly that: Slow the economy. So rate hikes may not be necessary anymore to beat back rising prices. On the other hand, it may not have the desired effect. Powell said the Fed is watching closely. "It's possible that these events will turn out to be very modest effects on the economy, in which case inflation will continue to be strong, in which case, you know, the path might look different," Powell said. "It's also possible that this potential tightening will contribute significant tightening in credit conditions over time. And in principle, that means that monetary policy may have less work to do. We simply don't know." The Fed is strongly signaling that its aggressive interest rate hike regime will come to an end soon, citing robust economic conditions and inflation moving lower. "We no longer state that we anticipate that ongoing rate increases will be appropriate to quell inflation," Powell said. "Instead, we now anticipate some additional policy firming may be appropriate." Powell noted the shift from the Fed's previous stance centers on the words "will" versus "some" and "may." The message is that further rates aren't guaranteed. "The end of the rate hiking cycle is in sight," said Jamie Cox, managing partner at Harris Financial Group. "The Fed is trying to navigate the very narrow path between defeating inflation and destroying the economy with blunt force rate hikes — even they now know the latter is a very real risk." Fed chair Jerome Powell sought to reassure the world that America's banks are, on the whole, healthy. "Our banking system is sound and resilient with strong capital and liquidity," he said at a news conference Wednesday. "We will continue to closely monitor conditions in the banking system and are prepared to use all of our tools as needed to keep it safe and sound." The Fed is raising interest rates by 25 basis points, signaling its commitment to fighting inflation despite the failures of Silicon Valley Bank and Signature Bank that sparked a selloff in bank stocks and has left similarly sized banks teetering. Fed Chair Jerome Powell, at a press conference Wednesday, said the Fed was committed to maintaining confidence in the banking sector. "In the past two weeks, serious difficulties at a small number of banks have emerged," he said. "History has shown that isolated banking problems, if left unaddressed, can undermine confidence in healthy banks and threaten the ability of the banking system as a whole to play its vital role in supporting the savings and credit needs of households and businesses." Powell said that threat is why US regulators worked to restore confidence by extending emergency lending to banks and increasing the availability and flow of dollars across the world. He noted that some banks currently have "unusual funding needs" as customers withdraw deposits, and the Fed's programs have effectively helped banks get the cash they need to stay afloat. "These actions demonstrate that all depositors' savings in the banking system are safe," Powell said. "Our banking system is sound and resilient. ... We are committed to learning the lessons from this episode and to work to prevent episodes, events like this, from happening again." Wednesday's decision from policymakers to hike rates for the ninth consecutive time was unanimous. No policymaker has voted against a decision since June last year. Fed officials raised overnight lending rates to a range of 4.75% to 5%, their highest level since September 2007. That sends a clear message that restoring price stability remains a top priority. This was the first vote for the committee's newest member, Chicago Federal Reserve President Austan Goolsbee. Stocks teetered Wednesday afternoon as Fed Chair Jerome Powell took the stand at the central bank's post-meeting press conference. The Dow fell about 0.5%. The S&P 500 fell about 0.7%. The Nasdaq Composite slipped about 0.3%. The 2-year Treasury yields extended their slide, after rising in recent days. The central bank's rate hike was in line with traders' expectations. Stocks initially rose on the news before teetering as Powell reaffirmed the Fed's dedication to achieving price stability. The central bank also revised its economic outlook and now expects the US economy to grow by 0.4% this year and unemployment to rise to 4.5%, up from the current 3.6% rate. This could put pressure on the Fed's dual mandate to battle inflation while keeping unemployment down. Goldman Sachs expected the Fed would not hike rates today. That forecast didn't come true. But the Wall Street bank now believes the Fed will have a difficult path ahead to keep both the economy and the banking sector healthy. “Despite the Fed pressing ahead with a [quarter-point] rate hike today, we see considerable uncertainty in the path ahead and would downplay the significance of updated economic ... projections in such a fast-moving environment," said Ashish Shah, Goldman's chief investment officer of the company's public investing business. Shah said Goldman believes the Fed will be forced to make decisions about rates and other policies based on both the banking sector and data about the economy.  "Concerns over capital constraints can fast change the economic outlook," Shah noted. Although Goldman believes more rate cuts could come in the future, it predicts the Fed will pause for a bit. The Fed, similarly, predicted Wednesday that rates will be exactly the same at the end of the year (around 5%) as they are now. “It is difficult to pinpoint where and when further vulnerabilities may unfold, but we think areas that benefited the most from low rates and low inflation may be the most exposed," Shah said.  The Fed released its economic projections Wednesday. Although not much changed from its previous outlook released in December, the Fed has grown somewhat more pessimistic about the economy while very slightly more optimistic about the labor market in 2023. In its latest forecast, the Fed expects the US economy will grow by a measly 0.4% this year — lower than the also-puny 0.5% expected economic expansion in December. However, the Fed now believes unemployment will rise to 4.5%, up from the current 3.6% rate. That's a slightly better forecast than the 4.6% unemployment rate the Fed had anticipated in December. Assuming no change in the labor force, that would mean 1.5 million more people would be unemployed by the end of the year, according to the Fed's projections. Inflation will continue to slide this year, the Fed thinks — just not as much as it had previously hoped. The central bank believes its favorite inflation metric, the Personal Consumption Expenditures index, will grow by 3.3% this year, more than the 3.1% it had predicted in its previous forecast. The Federal Reserve raised interest rates by a quarter point on Wednesday as it attempts to fight stubbornly high inflation while addressing risks to financial stability. Investors and economists had widely anticipated the quarter-point increase — or even a pause — amid the meltdown in the banking sector. Still, Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell and policymakers entered their second policymaking meeting of the year surrounded by an unusual level of uncertainty as the landscape surrounding the financial system continues to shift. The central bank’s mission in battling inflation became much more difficult over the past few weeks as the collapse of several banks meant the Fed had to balance a potential financial crisis alongside high inflation and a tight labor market. The banking chaos has stoked fears not just that the central bank could overcorrect the economy into recession but that it could trigger more bank failures, and prominent economists have urged the Fed to pause rate hikes. That’s partially because rate hikes have undermined the value of Treasuries and other securities, a critical source of capital for most US banks. When Silicon Valley Bank was forced to sell those bonds quickly at a substantial loss, the bank ran into a liquidity crisis and collapsed. Chair Powell is scheduled to hold a press conference at 2:30 p.m., where he is expected to provide clarity on the Fed policymakers' decision. With just minutes to go before the Federal Reserve rate decision, stocks were mixed Wednesday. The major indexes lost their earlier gains as the 2 p.m. ET announcement drew near. The Dow was down about 86 points, or 0.26%. The S&P 500 fell 0.1%. The Nasdaq Composite rose 0.07%. Wall Street largely expects the central bank to raise rates by a quarter point. Traders are also seeking commentary from Fed Chair Jerome Powell about how the banking meltdown could affect the central bank's monetary policy going forward. Shares of regional banks fell Wednesday after rebounding the day before. Shares of PacWest Bancorp fell nearly 11% after it said customers had drawn down around 20% of its total deposits this year. Large banks also got caught in the washout. Shares of Wells Fargo fell about 1.4%. Shares of JPMorgan Chase slipped 1.6%. Right now, $250,000 seems to be the number on everyone's minds. That's the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation's standard limit, meaning any bank deposits up to that amount are protected by the independent government agency. Before the recent collapse of Silicon Valley Bank and Signature Bank, most Americans were not worried about (or even thinking about) insurance limits on banks, since almost all US banks are backed by the FDIC. But now there's growing support for raising that insurance cap. Advocates, including prominent lawmakers such as Massachusetts Senator Elizabeth Warren, say such measures will help stabilize a sector on the brink and prevent future bank runs, and that the government has already made exceptions for depositors this month. Others argue a sweeping deposit guarantee would encourage banks to engage in riskier behavior with customers' money and might essentially reward irresponsible behavior. An insurance cap of millions of dollars would cover an amount that most Americans don't have in their bank to worry about ever having on deposit, of course. But a cap could help small businesses operate and make payroll, among other things that would affect everyday workers, advocates say. It would also help eliminate the incentive for large depositors in banks we all share to take their money out at signs of unease, said J. Michael Collins, a professor at the University of Wisconsin who focuses on consumer finance. "When we know that those big depositors won't make a run and take all the money out, then we're guaranteed we can get our much smaller amounts back," Collins said. Read more PacWest Bancorp's shares fell about 10% Wednesday morning after the bank revealed customers had drawn down some 20% of its total deposits this year. The bank — which has been under intense scrutiny since the collapse of Silicon Valley Bank earlier this month — had nearly $34 billion in deposits at the start of the year, versus $27.1 billion this week. PacWest said in a statement that its deposits balances had "stabilized." PacWest also said it had secured $1.4 billion in cash from investment firm Atlas SP Partners and would not go forward with a capital raise. "In light of the current volatility in the market and depressed market prices for regional bank stocks, as well as the availability of other options to enhance capital, the Company determined it would not be prudent to move forward with a transaction at this time," the bank said. The Federal Reserve should hike interest rates by a quarter point, argues Jason Furman, former chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers under President Obama. Speaking to CNN, he told Julia Chatterley, “The best move is 25 basis points, I think that’s what they will do." He added that if it wasn’t for banking turmoil it would have been “an open and shut case” for a half-point hike. He explained that a quarter point was “enough to show they were serious on inflation.” Stocks wavered Wednesday as investors awaited the Federal Reserve's interest rate hike decision at 2 p.m. ET. Traders see a roughly 88% probability of a quarter-point rate hike, giving the central bank the chance to increase rates by that much without shocking the market.  Tuesday's rebound in bank stocks puttered out Wednesday morning. Shares of PacWest Bancorp and First Republic fell roughly 10% and 0.3%, respectively. But Wall Street seems to have calmed somewhat — CNN's Fear & Greed Index was at 38 reading on Wednesday morning, indicating fear. That's up from 18 last week, which suggested "extreme fear" drove Wall Street. Nevertheless, markets will likely be volatile during Fed Chair Jerome Powell's post-meeting press conference, especially as investors look for reassurance that the financial sector is safe from further trouble. Meanwhile, US Treasury yields continued their upward trajectory. The 2-year yield rose to about 4.227% but was still below its year-to-date high close of 5.066% from earlier this month, according to Tradeweb data. The Dow climbed about 21 points, or 0.07%. The S&P 500 fell 0.05%. The Nasdaq Composite declined 0.12%. UK consumer prices jumped by 10.4% in February compared with a year ago, as food inflation hit its highest level in more than 45 years, and as the cost of visiting restaurants and hotels increased, official data showed Wednesday. Food prices soared 18.2% through the year to February, the sharpest rise since the late 1970s. The Office for National Statistics noted particular increases for some salad and vegetable items, partly caused by shortages, which led to rationing by supermarkets. The surprise uptick in inflation in February follows months of deceleration since the pace of price rises reached a 41-year high of 11.1% in October.  The latest figures could make it more likely that the Bank of England hikes interest rates again when it meets Thursday.  Although recent turmoil in the banking sector is expected to weaken economic activity, as lending criteria are tightened, and so dampen inflation, "the Bank of England may well want to see hard evidence of that before it stops raising interest rates," said Paul Dales, chief UK economist at Capital Economics. "It's still a very close call, but these figures give us a bit more confidence in our forecast that the Bank will raise interest rates from 4% to 4.25% tomorrow." But Samuel Tombs, chief UK economist at Pantheon Macroeconomics, said increases in food inflation and catering services inflation accounted for all of the rise in the headline rate and both were linked to the jump in the price of fresh food as a result of bad harvests.  "This boost should unwind over the coming months," he said on Twitter. "It makes little sense to hike rates to counter a weather-related jump in food prices." Core inflation — which strips out volatile food and energy costs — also rose, coming in at 6.2% in the year to February, up from 5.8% in January. The data complicates the central bank's decision over whether it should raise rates for the 11th consecutive time Thursday — and makes it harder for the government to deliver on its January pledge to halve inflation this year. And Britons are still getting poorer. Wages rose 6.5% in January compared with a year prior, far below the inflation rate both that month and in February. A “significant” number of smaller and regional banks could collapse within the next two years, a top hedge fund manager said Wednesday. Luke Ellis, chief executive of Man Group, a London-based hedge fund, told a Bloomberg conference that the turmoil unleashed by the failure of Silicon Valley Bank in the United States two weeks ago would continue to ripple out to other lenders in the UK and the United States. “I think that we will have a significant number of… banks that will not exist 12-24 months,” Ellis said, adding that the majority of the risk was concentrated among smaller and regional banks. Technology fundamentally changed the speed at which depositors could withdraw their money from banks, he said. The staggering withdrawals that unfolded at a speed at Silicon Valley Bank were enabled by digital banking and were likely fueled in part by viral panic spreading on social media platforms and, reportedly, in private chat groups. The end result was a modern race to withdraw funds, which House Financial Services Chair Patrick McHenry later described in a statement as ” the first Twitter-fueled bank run.” “At any time of stress, people are going to move their money to one of the banks they think the government is behind, and that means the deposit base of any of the smaller banks becomes flighty,” Ellis said. Senator Elizabeth Warren is cranking up the pressure on the Federal Reserve following the collapse of Silicon Valley Bank.  In a new letter shared exclusively with CNN, Warren, Sen. Bernie Sanders and six other senators are calling for the Fed to crack down on large regional banks with assets between $100 billion and $250 billion.  Both Silicon Valley Bank and Signature Bank fit into that asset threshold when they failed earlier this month. The bipartisan 2018 rollback of Dodd-Frank freed large regional banks in that range of assets from the toughest oversight.  "The fall of both SVB and Signature, the near-crash of First Republic, and the struggles of other regional banks shed new light on the systemic important of banks with assets totaling between $100 billion and $250 billion," the lawmakers wrote in a letter sent Wednesday to Michael Barr, the vice chair for supervision at the Fed.  The lawmakers note that the same 2018 rollback of Dodd-Frank gives the Fed latitude in applying tougher regulation on banks in this category -- including stronger capital, liquidity, stress testing and resolution plans. Notably, the letter was signed by Senator Angus King, the Maine independent who voted in favor of the 2018 rollback. It was also signed by Sanders and Democratic Senators Jack Reed, Tammy Duckworth, Richard Blumenthal, Mazie Hirono and Ed Markey.  "Irresponsible and excessive risk taking by SVB and Signature executives should serve as a clear reminder that banks cannot be left to supervise themselves," Warren and the other Senate Democrats wrote. "The Fed has a responsibility to ensure financial stability, and in order to fulfill that responsibility, it must ensure that all banks with potential systemic significance are subject to rigorous safety and soundness rules." The lawmakers argue that the federal intervention in the wake of the SVB and Signature failures underscore the systemic risk posed by troubles in banks of this size.  The collapse of Silicon Valley Bank and Signature Bank occurred during the Federal Reserve’s blackout window, a 10-day period from the second Saturday before a policy meeting to midnight the day after a meeting. During that period, officials are barred from making public comments on monetary policy. That means Wednesday is the first time that Fed officials will really be able to weigh in. During his scheduled press conference at 2:30 p.m., Fed Chair Powell will likely face a host of questions on the bank failures. On the regulatory front, how did the Fed miss this coming? Don’t these regional banks deserve tougher scrutiny? And on the economic front, Powell will need to explain how Fed officials see the bank failures tightening financial and lending conditions and thus slowing the economy. In many ways, the banking crisis is doing the Fed’s job for it – just not in an orderly way. Stocks: US stock futures were slightly lower Wednesday ahead of a critical Fed decision: Will it raise rates to continue to fight inflation or keep rates steady to ease up on a banking sector in crisis? Dow futures were down 15 points, or 0.1%. S&P 500 futures fell 0.1%. Nasdaq Composite futures were 0.2% lower. European markets were mostly higher, and Asian markets were up sharply.   Fear & Greed Index: 38 = Fear  Oil & gas: US oil prices were down 0.4% to $69 a barrel. Average US gas prices held steady at $3.44 a gallon.  Bitcoin: Bitcoin was unchanged at $28,200.  The Federal Reserve and its chairman, Jerome Powell, are facing a legacy-defining moment. The mission? Slay the inflation dragon without singeing the banking system. Among the choices, the Fed could continue its aggressive rate-hike campaign to cool inflation that is running at triple the central bank's target of 2%. It could take a time-out to assess how that campaign has strained the banking system. Or it could split the difference and raise rates by a quarter point to show its commitment to both the inflation fight and financial system stability. Instead of higher rates for longer, some economists are even penciling in rate cuts late this year if the banking crisis fuels a recession. For Powell and Co., the stakes are high. "I don't think he should be chairman of the Federal Reserve," Democratic Senator Elizabeth Warren told NBC's Meet The Press this weekend. Warren — already a critic of the Fed's inflation fight — said Powell has failed at both monetary policy and bank supervision. But for any Fed chief, there are more challenges than tools to tackle them. And this Fed chief inherited an unprecedented economy. "Powell has been stuck between a rock and a hard place from the moment he became Chair," said Ann Berry, founder of Threadneedle Ventures. He was "handed two administrations without fiscal discipline and two black swan events of a global pandemic and a Twitter-driven bank run." "He has read correctly the labor market's ability to sustain full employment in the face of necessary rate hikes," she said, "but history won't judge kindly the late start to Fed tightening and the failure to catch SVB's obviously flawed risk management." The Federal Reserve is facing “a trilemma,” and Chair Jerome Powell is partly to blame, according to Mohamed El-Erian, chief economic adviser at Allianz. “They have to lower inflation, they have to avoid more banking stress and they have to avoid the economy going into recession. It’s a very delicate policy balance and it reflects the fact that they started [raising rates] late,” he told the BBC. “I think history will show that [Powell] has probably made the biggest mistake in the last 40 years, and it’s the mistake of not reacting quickly enough to inflation and as a result ending up destabilizing the banking system,” El-Erian said. “So, I’m afraid that he’ll go down in history as having under-reacted to inflation and not having supervised the banking system adequately.” The collapse of two regional US banks this month has been partly blamed on the pace of Fed rate rises, which slashed the value of some long-dated US Treasuries. That left the banks struggling to raise cash to pay depositors. And some economists have called for the Fed to pause to avoid inflicting further damage. El-Erian said the Fed should ignore those calls. “The market expects them to raise interest rates by a quarter of a percent. If they do that they will simply validate market expectations, and they will follow the European Central Bank, which last week raised by half a percentage point while saying that we have other tools to deal with financial stability,” he said. “I worry that they will be tempted to do nothing and that will cause its own instability. “ The European Central Bank’s top banking supervisor said Tuesday that the capital and liquidity positions of European banks was “solid,” while cautioning that signs of credit risk were appearing in parts of their loan books. “Banks’ capital and liquidity positions remain solid and well above minimum requirements,” the ECB’s Andrea Enria told European Union lawmakers. But European banks needed to be watching carefully for risks to their funding and liquidity that could arise from “the fast-paced adjustment of interest rates,” he said. The ECB was also closely monitoring “increasing credit risk in certain sectors,” Enria said. While non-performing loans — loans where the borrower misses repayments — have declined overall, the central bank has seen “some upticks,” particularly in the area of consumer finance, Enria said. But he emphasised the overall strength of European banks and drew a stark comparison with lenders in the United States. Enria said that the decision of US officials in 2018 to roll back some regulations applied to banks following the 2008 financial crisis had proved “damaging.” Under the pared-back rules, small and mid-sized banks — those with assets below $250 billion, like now-collapsed Silicon Valley Bank — were no longer o