Kamal was standing outside a shop with other migrant workers, having finished yet another grueling working day, when he and -- he says -- a few others were arrested this August. Without explanation, the 24-year-old says he was put into a vehicle and, for the next week, kept in a Qatari jail, the location and name of which he does not know. "When they arrested me, I couldn't say anything, not a single word, as I was so scared," he told CNN Sport, speaking at home in southern Nepal where he has been working on a farm since being deported three months ago. Kamal -- CNN has changed the names of the Nepali workers to protect them from retaliation -- is one of many migrant workers wanting to tell the world of their experiences in Qatar, a country that will this month host one of sport's greatest, most lucrative, spectacles -- the World Cup, a tournament which usually unites the world as millions watch the spectacular goals and carefully-choreographed celebrations. It will be a historic event, the first World Cup to be held in the Middle East, but one also mired in controversy. Much of the build-up to this tournament has been on more sober matters, that of human rights, from the deaths of migrant workers and the conditions many have endured in Qatar, to LGBTQ and women's rights. Kamal says he has yet to be paid the 7,000 Qatari Riyal bonus (around $1,922) he says he is entitled to from his previous employers, nor 7,000 Riyal in insurance for injuring two fingers at work. "I wasn't told why I was being arrested. People are just standing there ... some are walking with their grocery [sic], some are just sitting there consuming tobacco products ... they just arrest you," he adds, before explaining he could not ask questions as he does not speak Arabic. Describing the conditions in the cell he shared with 24 other Nepali migrant workers, he says he was provided with a blanket and a pillow, but the mattress on the floor he had to sleep on was riddled with bed bugs. "Inside the jail, there were people from Sri Lanka, Kerala (India), Pakistan, Sudan, Nepal, African, Philippines. There were around 14-15 units. In one jail, there were around 250-300 people. Around 24-25 people per room," he says. "When they take you to the jail, they don't give you a room right away. They keep you in a veranda. After a day or two, once a room is empty, they keep people from one country in one room." Using a smuggled phone, he spoke to friends, one of whom, he says, brought his belongings -- including his passport -- to the jail, though he says he was sent home after the Nepali embassy had sent a paper copy of his passport to the jail. CNN has reached out to the embassy but has yet to receive a response. "When they put me on the flight, I started thinking: 'Why are they sending workers back all of a sudden? It's not one, two, 10 people ... they are sending 150, 200, 300 workers on one flight,'" he says. "Some workers who were just roaming outside wearing (work) dress were sent back. They don't even allow you to collect your clothes. They just send you back in the cloth you are wearing." Kamal believes he was arrested because he had a second job, which is illegal under Qatar's 2004 Labour Law and allows authorities to cancel a worker's work permit. He says he worked an extra two to four hours a day to supplement his income as he was not making enough money working six eight-hour days a week. Qatar has a 90-day grace period in which a worker can remain in the country legally without another sponsor, but if they have not had their permit renewed or reactivated in that time they risk being arrested or deported for being undocumented. He says he received paperwork upon his arrest, which Amnesty International says would likely have explained why he was being detained, but as it was in Arabic he did not know what it said and no translator was provided. A Qatari government official told CNN in a statement: "Any claims that workers are being jailed or deported without explanation are untrue. Action is only taken in very specific cases, such as if an individual participates in violence." The official added that 97% of all eligible workers were covered by Qatar's Wage Protection System, established in 2018, "which ensures wages are paid in full and on time." Further work was being done to strengthen the system, the official said. Some workers never returned home With the opening match just days away, on-the-pitch matters are a mere footnote because this tournament has come at a cost to workers who left their families in the belief that they would reap financial rewards in one of the world's richest countries per capita. Some would never return home. None of the three Nepali workers CNN spoke to were richer for their experience. Indeed, they are in debt and full of melancholy. The Guardian reported last year that 6,500 South Asian migrant workers have died in Qatar since the country was awarded the World Cup in 2010, most of whom were involved in low-wage, dangerous labor, often undertaken in extreme heat. The report did not connect all 6,500 deaths with World Cup infrastructure projects and has not been independently verified by CNN. Hassan Al Thawadi -- the man in charge of leading Qatar's preparations -- told CNN's Becky Anderson that the Guardian's 6,500 figure was a "sensational headline" that was misleading and that the report lacked context. A government official told CNN there had been three work-related deaths on stadiums and 37 non-work-related deaths. In a statement, the official said the Guardian's figures were "inaccurate" and "wildly misleading." "The 6,500 figure takes the number of all foreign worker deaths in the country over a 10-year period and attributes it to the World Cup," the official said. "This is not true and neglects all other causes of death including illness, old age and traffic accidents. It also fails to recognize that only 20% of foreign workers in Qatar are employed on construction sites." It has been widely reported that Qatar has spent $220 billion leading up to the tournament, which would make it the most expensive World Cup in history, though this likely includes infrastructure not directly associated with stadium construction. A spokesperson for the Supreme Committee for Delivery & Legacy (SC) which, since its formation in 2011, has been responsible for overseeing the infrastructure projects and planning for the World Cup, told CNN that the tournament budget was $6.5 billion, without expanding on what that cost covered. Eight new stadiums rose from the desert, and the Gulf state expanded its airport, constructed new hotels, rail and highways. All would have been constructed by migrant workers, who -- according to Amnesty International -- account for 90% of the workforce in a near-three million population. Since 2010, migrant workers have faced delayed or unpaid wages, forced labor, long hours in hot weather, employer intimidation and an inability to leave their jobs because of the country's sponsorship system, human rights organizations have found. However, the health, safety and dignity of "all workers employed on our projects has remained steadfast," a statement from the SC read. "Our efforts have resulted in significant improvements in accommodation standards, health and safety regulations, grievance mechanisms, healthcare provision and reimbursements of illegal recruitment fees to workers. "While the journey is on-going, we are committed to delivering the legacy we promised. A legacy that improves lives and lays the foundation for fair, sustainable and lasting labour reforms." Last year, in an interview with CNN Sport anchor Amanda Davies, FIFA President Gianni Infantino said that while "more needs to be done," progress had been made. "I've seen the great evolution that has happened in Qatar, which was recognized -- I mean not by FIFA -- but by labor unions around the world, by international organizations," said Infantino. 'It was difficult to breathe' We are, unusually, writing about a World Cup in November because the competition had to be moved from its usual June-July slot to Qatar's winter as the heat is so extreme in the country's summer months -- temperatures can reach around 43 degrees Celsius (109 degrees Fahrenheit) in June -- that playing in such conditions could have posed a health risk to players. Hari is 27 years old and, like many of his compatriots, left Nepal for Qatar as his family -- he was one of five siblings with just his father at home -- desperately needed money, primarily to eat. Since 2013, Nepal's government-mandated minimum wage has been set at $74 a month, according to minimum-wage.org. He says that his monthly wage in Qatar was 700 Rial a month ($192). After moving to Qatar in 2014, he worked in four places during his four-year stay: at a supermarket, a hotel and airport, but the most difficult job, he says, was in construction when he had to carry tiles up buildings "six to seven stories above" in overbearing heat, plus lay pipelines in deep pits. "It was too hot," he tells CNN. "The foreman was very demanding and used to complain a lot. The foreman used to threaten to reduce our salaries and overtime pay. "I had to carry tiles on my shoulder to the top. It was very difficult going up through the scaffolding. In the pipeline work, there were 5-7 meters deep pits, we had to lay the stones and concrete, it was difficult due to the heat. It was difficult to breathe. We had to come upstairs using a ladder to drink water. "It never happened to me, but I saw some workers fainting at work. I saw one Bengali, one Nepali ... two to three people faint while working. They took the Bengali to medical services. I'm not sure what happened to him." During his time in Qatar, government regulations generally prohibited workers from working outdoors between 11:30 a.m. and 3 p.m. from June 15 to August 31. He said one company he worked for followed these rules. He added: "At some places, they didn't have water. Some places, they didn't provide us water on time. At some places, we used to go to houses nearby asking for water." Working long hours in extreme heat has, some non-governmental organizations believe, caused a number of deaths and put lives at risk in Qatar. In 2019, research published in the Cardiology Journal, exploring the relationship between the deaths of more than 1,300 Nepali workers between 2009 and 2017 and heat exposure, found a "strong correlation" between heat stress and young workers dying of cardiovascular problems in the summer months. The government official told CNN that there had been a "consistent decline" in the mortality rate of migrant workers, including a decline in heat stress disorders, "thanks in large part to our comprehensive heat stress legislation." "Qatar has always acknowledged that work remains to be done, notably to hold unscrupulous employers to acc