In late August of 2021, Minneapolis police responded to a shooting along I-94, where they found a BMW sedan that had crashed into a freeway median. Slumped behind the steering wheel was 38-year-old Luis Damian Martinez Ortiz, who'd suffered a fatal gunshot wound to the chest. After reviewing surveillance footage, police arrested George Howard, then 47, who'd gotten into an alleged road-rage altercation with Ortiz on a freeway onramp, according to court documents. Howard, whose trial is slated for April, stands accused of second-degree murder; his attorney says he was acting in self-defense. Days after his arrest, local crime bloggers and rightwing media pounced on a discovery. Three weeks prior to the shooting, Howard -- who had a lengthy rap sheet and a history of violence -- had been bailed out of jail while awaiting trial on a misdemeanor domestic-assault charge. The woman he allegedly assaulted had secretly called 911 during that incident and was heard by a dispatcher saying, "I don't want to die," according to a case report obtained by CNN. The party that put up the $1,500 in cash to release Howard is a progressive organization called the Minnesota Freedom Fund.  "Ya picked another winner, MFF, bravo," tweeted CrimeWatchMpls, a widely followed local crime blog -- and a frequent critic of the nonprofit -- above the court document it had dug up and mugshot of Howard. "Thanks so much." The Minnesota Freedom Fund is among more than 100 charitable bail groups in the United States. Together, they represent a segment of the bail ecosystem that mostly flew under the public's radar until the May 2020 police murder of George Floyd in Minneapolis.   Most raise money through crowdsourcing or other methods of fundraising and post bail for low-income defendants as part of a larger effort to abolish the cash-bail system, which many of the nonprofits view as a predator of the poor -- and in particular of Black, brown and Indigenous communities.    Floyd's death left many Americans eager to do their part to counter inequities in the criminal justice system. Celebrities such as Justin Timberlake, Seth Rogen and Vice President Kamala Harris touted the Minnesota Freedom Fund and other bail charities on Twitter. Donations poured in. Many charities experienced a surge, but none as jarring as the one that jolted the Minnesota Freedom Fund. In all of 2019, it raised about $231,000; in 2020, the charity took in a whopping $41.6 million. The deluge of donations was so huge it crashed the organization's PayPal account.  "It was getting kind of scary," Mirella Ceja-Orozco, co-executive director of the Minnesota Freedom Fund, told CNN. "None of us had ever seen this kind of money."   The Minnesota Freedom Fund wasn't the only charity to experience an influx of cash in 2020. The Los Angeles-based Bail Project -- which operates in nearly two dozen cities nationwide -- saw its annual contributions that fiscal year nearly triple to about $42 million. The Chicago Community Bond Fund's annual revenues skyrocketed from about $1 million to nearly $8 million by the end of 2020. In the Seattle area, the Northwest Community Bail Fund's annual take-in blew up from a mere $158,000 to about $5.7 million.  Almost overnight, charitable bail groups had become hefty contributors to a fast-snowballing movement to reform the cash-bail system. The momentum kept building after Floyd's death, with Joe Biden's presidential campaign calling for the end of cash bail and Illinois Gov. J.B. Pritzker signing a landmark bill making his state the first in the nation to completely abolish it. (The bill was poised to go into effect in January, but was put on hold on New Year's Eve due to a flurry of litigation.) At the height of the unrest over Floyd's death -- with demonstrators getting arrested by the hundreds in major cities -- many bail charities advertised themselves as a mechanism by which to release protesters held in jail.  But since then, in no small part because they've had such a windfall at their disposal, some bail charities have started taking on more hardcore cases. The nonprofit groups argue that their work is no different from that of commercial bail bondsmen. Still, not all states treat them as equal. New York, for instance, bars charitable bail groups -- and not their licensed commercial counterparts -- from bailing out defendants accused of felonies. In Minneapolis's Hennepin County, which along with the rest of the state is served by the Minnesota Freedom Fund, CNN discovered at least 65 defendants who were bailed out by the charity after Floyd's killing while awaiting trial on felony charges involving violence, physical threats or sex crimes. All were convicted. According to court documents, they included a woman who fatally stabbed a man for refusing to have sex with her; a convicted felon who shot a man twice in the abdomen in a strip-mall parking lot (the victim survived); a man with a history of violent felony convictions who assaulted a woman with a butcher knife and beer bottle, leaving her with a broken jaw and collarbone; and a man with five prior felonies who stomped on the head of a tourist, causing what paramedics said was a broken jaw, profuse bleeding and a possible concussion. In Indiana, over the three years ending in December of 2021, 24% of the roughly 1,000 defendants cut loose by The Bail Project -- among the largest charitable bail groups in the United States -- had been charged with a crime of violence; 35% were facing felony charges and had a previous charge of at least one crime of violence, according to figures shared by the organization in a lawsuit. CNN also found dozens of cases across the country after Floyd's death in which defendants bailed out by charities were later arrested again for alleged acts of violent crime, including robbery, assault, kidnapping and attempted murder. In at least nine cases, a beneficiary of a bail charity has, after their release from jail, been subsequently arrested on murder charges.   Seizing on rising crime rates in the months after Floyd's death, Republicans in Minnesota, Kentucky, Pennsylvania, Washington state and Indiana took aim at bail charities with bills seeking to quash or hamper their ability to operate.  The Indiana bill was consequential: It became law in July. The new statute, among other things, prohibits bail charities -- but not commercial bail-bond companies or private citizens -- from bailing out defendants accused of crimes of violence or who are charged with a felony and have a violent crime conviction on their record. The leaders of The Bail Project -- which stopped posting bail in Indiana after the new law took effect -- say they feel singled out and the organization has teamed with the ACLU in filing a federal lawsuit against the state. A judge denied The Bail Project's request for a preliminary injunction, but a final ruling is pending.   The state of Indiana's response to the suit sums up the primary complaints of bail-charity critics: In this post-George Floyd era, the nonprofit groups have thrown themselves into the gears of the American criminal justice system like a wrench, undermining structural incentives for getting defendants to show up for court while occasionally releasing dangerous criminals back into the streets -- all with minimal transparency and oversight. A CNN review found that the new Indiana law -- if applied nationally -- likely would have prohibited charities from releasing at least five of the nine defendants who were later arrested on murder charges. But sometimes, the circumstances surrounding allegations of serious crimes can be murky. That was the case for Trey Dozier of Chicago, who says that were it not for The Bail Project coming to his rescue during his darkest hour, his life would be ruined. The 'scary exception'  Dozier, now 36, lost his job as a claims manager for a moving company and with it his health insurance in 2020, forcing him to ration his insulin. As he and The Bail Project tell the story, one day in August of that year, Dozier fell into a diabetic coma and went missing due to "diabetic dementia." While wandering about in a daze, Dozier allegedly opened the passenger door of an occupied car and demanded the occupants get out; they called the police. He was arrested and charged with felony carjacking.   A judge set Dozier's bail at $100,000; to get out he would need to pay a $10,000 deposit. Dozier and his partner not only lacked the money, they were way behind on rent.   "I was working at Target at the time, so I was really going to work every day and coming home and thinking, 'Is this the day when all of our stuff is going to be on the street?'" Dozier's partner, Christin Tauriainen, told CNN. Tauriainen shared Dozier's plight on TikTok; employees at The Bail Project saw it and the organization agreed to cover Dozier's bail. He was released in late 2020 after having been in jail for three months. His next court hearing is on April 3.    "If it were not for The Bail Project, the things that they did, I cannot -- I really, truly can't tell you," Dozier told CNN, adding that he now has a better job than the one he lost. "It was us falling without a parachute, and somebody showing up basically right on time."  Bail charity operators say it is stories like Dozier's -- rather than the more sensational ones about defendants who commit grave crimes after their release -- that typify their clientele.  "We see articles all the time about the exception -- the scary exception," said Robin Steinberg, the founder and CEO of The Bail Project. "What you never see are stories that talk about the millions of people, literally, that come out of jail every year in the pretrial context and go back to their families, continue to thrive, fight their cases from a position of freedom, feed their children, do their jobs, finish their cases, and move on with their lives. That's never a headline." Nationwide, some 70% of the 636,000 inmates in local jails have not been convicted of the crime for which they are accused, according to a recent Bureau of Justice Statistics report, citing data from 2021. That means most people in jail are there awaiting trial because they can't afford cash bail, say advocates of bail reform. Black people make up roughly 35% of all jail inmates, which is more than twice their share of the general population. Bail charity advocates note that wealthy defendants who are granted bail can almost always enjoy freedom until their trial (think Harvey Weinstein or murderer Robert Durst, who paid $250,000 and then skipped his court hearing) while indigent ones stuck behind bars are often pressured to plead guilty just to get out of jail. The Minnesota Freedom Fund says about a third of the defendants it bails out ultimately have their cases entirely dropped.  A double standard? C