Two decades ago, on March 19, 2003, President George W. Bush ordered the US invasion of Iraq. Bush and senior administration officials had repeatedly told Americans that Iraqi dictator Saddam Hussein was armed to the teeth with weapons of mass destruction and that he was in league with al Qaeda. These claims resulted in most Americans believing that Saddam was involved in the September 11, 2001, attacks. A year after 9/11, two-thirds of Americans said that the Iraqi leader had helped the terrorists, according to Pew Research Center polling, even though there was not a shred of convincing evidence for this. Nor did he have the WMD alleged by US officials. US and UK forces defeated Saddam's troops within weeks, but an insurgency sprang up against the invaders, which persisted for years. On December 13, 2003, US Special Operations Forces found Saddam hiding in a one-man-size hole in northern Iraq. The FBI decided that George Piro, a Lebanese American special agent in his mid-30s who spoke Arabic, was the right person to interrogate Saddam. Piro's work ethic was impressive: He would arrive at the FBI gym in downtown Washington, DC, at 6 a.m. for a workout, so he could start on the job at 7 a.m. at his office, which was lined with Middle Eastern history books. The stakes could not have been higher for the FBI. Piro was under tremendous pressure to find out from Saddam the truth about Iraq's weapons of mass destruction and purported ties to al Qaeda. CIA Director George Tenet had famously told Bush that the case that Saddam had WMD was a "slam dunk." The Iraq War was also sold to Americans as a "cakewalk." Instead, hundreds of American soldiers had already been killed in Iraq by the time of Saddam's arrest. The CIA first questioned Saddam. And then over a period of seven months, Piro talked to him for many hours a day, with no one else allowed in the interrogation room. He discovered from the Iraqi dictator that no WMD existed and that Saddam only had contempt for Osama bin Laden, the leader of al Qaeda. The dictator's discussions with Piro confirmed that the Iraq War was America's original sin during the dawn of the 21st century — a war fought under false assumptions, a conflict that killed thousands of American troops and hundreds of thousands of Iraqis. The war also damaged America's standing in the world and the credibility of the US government among its citizens. Even the official US Army history of Iraq concluded that the real winner of the war in Iraq wasn't America. It was ... Iran. After interrogating Saddam, Piro ascended to high-ranking positions at the FBI, retiring in July as the special agent in charge of the Miami field office. Now he is writing a book about his lengthy interrogations of the Iraqi dictator for Simon & Schuster. As the 20th anniversary of the start of the Iraq War approaches, I spoke to Piro about what some consider the most successful interrogation in FBI history and the aftershocks of the US invasion of Iraq, which are still being felt today. Our conversation was lightly edited for clarity. Peter Bergen: Tell me how this all started. George Piro: I received a call on Christmas Eve, at about 5 o'clock in the evening, from a senior executive in the Counterterrorism Division. And he informed me that I had just been selected to interrogate Saddam Hussein on behalf of the FBI. Bergen: What was your reaction? Piro: Panic. Initially — I'll be honest — it was terrifying to know that now I was going to be interrogating somebody that was on the world stage for so many years. It seemed such a significant responsibility on behalf of the FBI. I went to Barnes & Noble and bought two books on Saddam Hussein so I could start improving my understanding of who he was and all the things that were going to be important in developing an interrogation strategy. I had already been to Iraq once, the first element of FBI personnel to deploy, and I had begun to develop an understanding of Iraqi culture and the Baath Party, which was led by Saddam. Saddam was born on April 28, 1937, in a small village called al-Awja (near Tikrit). He had an extremely tough childhood as he did not have a father, and his mother married his uncle, who became his stepfather. Growing up, Saddam and his family were very poor, and initially, he was unable to attend school, but that childhood shaped the man Saddam became. His childhood instilled in him a deep desire to prove everyone wrong about him and not to trust anyone, but to rely solely on his instincts. As a young man, he joined the Baath Party, and one of his early assignments was to assassinate the then-prime minister. The assassination attempt failed, and Saddam was forced to flee Iraq. But upon his return, he was seen as a tough guy, an image he would promote throughout his career. At my first meeting with Saddam, within 30 seconds, he knew two things about me. I told him my name was George Piro and that I was in charge, and he immediately said, "You're Lebanese." I told him my parents were Lebanese, and then he said, "You're Christian." I asked him if that was a problem, and he said absolutely not. He loved the Lebanese people. Lebanese people loved him. And I was like, "Well, great. We're going to get along wonderfully." (Saddam was a Sunni Muslim, while most Iraqis are Shia Muslims.) Bergen: How long were you with Saddam? And, of course, you're communicating in Arabic throughout, right? Piro: About seven months. Initially, I would see him in the mornings. I would translate for his medical staff. And then, the formal interrogations were once or twice a week for several hours. As time went on, I started to spend more and more one-on-one time with him because I could communicate directly and very quickly with him. I built that to about five to seven hours every single day, one-on-one, a couple of hours in the morning, a couple of hours in the afternoon and then a formal interrogation session or two a week. And we talked about everything. So especially in the first couple of months, my goal was just to get him to talk. I wanted to know what he valued in life and what his likes, dislikes and thought processes were. So we talked about everything from history, art, sports to politics. We would talk about things that I knew he wouldn't have any reservations or hesitations to talk about. People have asked me about the first interrogation I did of Saddam, saying, "What was the topic?" The majority of that first discussion was about his published novel because I knew he wasn't going to lie about that. And I had researched and studied the book. Bergen: Was it a good novel? Piro: No, it was a terrible novel, "Zabiba and the King." Bergen: What was the plot? Piro: So Zabiba was a beautiful Arab woman, and she was married to a horrible old man. Of course, Zabiba represented Iraq. The old man represented the United States. The king, handsome and dashing, rescued Zabiba from her misery, and they lived happily ever after. Of course, you can imagine who the king was. ... A key thing that can enhance the outcome of an interrogation is subject matter expertise. It's extremely difficult to lie to a subject matter expert. Now, when you add that with a good interrogation strategy and approach, you are really increasing your likelihood of success with an interrogation. As an FBI agent and especially as an interrogator, I knew I wanted to know everything I could about Saddam because inconsistencies are indications of deception. I wanted to understand Saddam and know Saddam as well as he knew himself. To give you an example: Saddam's decision to invade Kuwait in 1990. I interviewed all the other "high-value detainees," and we specifically talked about that decision. And there was a critical meeting where Saddam decided to invade Kuwait. I knew where everyone sat in the conference room, what Saddam did, where he even placed his gun belt, and how he positioned it. So, when I was speaking to him, I would bring up those little details to reinforce how knowledgeable I was and how difficult it would be to misrepresent or lie about facts. It puts a tremendous amount of stress on the detainee when they are facing a subject matter expert because they must think so hard to develop any kind of lie that has a chance of maybe succeeding. Bergen: At this time, the CIA was running its "coercive interrogation program." Were you cognizant of this parallel interrogation program, or you found out about it later? And what did you think about it? Piro: I found out about it later, and of course, I've never used "enhanced interrogation techniques," as they're referred to. They're against the US Constitution, against FBI policy, and it goes really against the core values of the FBI. So, for me, it was never really an option because I've never used them, don't know how to use them, nor would I want to. I feel it goes against who we are as a country and what we represent. What was to my advantage, I was told by the FBI's assistant director, Counterterrorism Division, "Be prepared to spend a year with Saddam Hussein." So, I didn't have to rush through the process. The intelligence value of the information that we wanted from Saddam didn't diminish over time. It was as valuable whether we got it on Day One or Day 365. It was about getting it. It's different than when you're interrogating a terrorist, and there's a threat or a plot, and you're under a clock, and your goal is to prevent an attack. So, of course, your approach is going to be different. What we wanted to know was buried in Saddam's head, and it was strategic. And it was getting him to share that. So, developing an effective long-term interrogation strategy was really the key. Bergen: After 9/11, many Americans believed that Saddam was personally involved in 9/11. Did he talk about it? Piro: As you recall, prior to the invasion of Iraq, there were officials within the Department of Defense that had claimed that Iraq was operationally involved in 9/11, and we had to determine whether that was factual or not. That was our second-highest priority. Our first one was Iraq's WMD program. Second was the extent of the relationship between al Qaeda and Iraq. Saddam told me that he didn't like Osama bin Laden and that he didn't believe in al Qaeda's ideology because it aimed to create an Islamic state throughout the Arab world. Well, Saddam had no desire to turn over power or relinquish anything to someone else. Saddam would joke about Osama bin Laden, saying, "You really can't trust anybody with a beard like that." The other Iraqi detainees confirmed that there was no operational relationship with al Qaeda. I would describe it, at best, as an arms-length relationship. Saddam told me it was imperative to find out what al Qaeda was focused on, and then if he could manipulate them, that would be an added benefit. Bergen: Saddam was a secularist