Our live coverage of Russia's war in Ukraine has moved here. Ukraine's Ministry of Defense said late Monday night that a strike hit and destroyed Russian Kalibr cruise missiles – while they were being transported by train –in the town of Dzhankoi in the north of Russian-occupied Crimea. The strike serves to further "demilitarize Russia and prepare the Crimean peninsula for de-occupation," Ukrainian authorities said. Meanwhile, the Russian-installed head of the annexed peninsula confirmed there was a strike and that the air defense system in Dzhankoi was activated. One person was injured and two buildings were damaged in the strike, Sergei Askyonov said.  The Russian-installed head of the annexed peninsula confirmed there was a strike and that the air defense system was activated. One person was injured and two buildings were damaged, Sergei Askyonov said.  Amateur video geolocated by CNN shows a large explosion and resulting fireball. An individual is heard saying off-camera that the strike hit the train station. However, the video did not clearly show what had been hit, and CNN hasn't been able to confirm the exact location of the strike. Some background: "Dzhankoi and Gvardeyskoye are home to two of the most important Russian military airfields in Crimea," the UK Ministry of Defense said in 2022. "Dzhankoi is also a key road and rail junction that plays an important role in supplying Russia’s operations in southern Ukraine," it said. China’s leader Xi Jinping underlined the country's willingness to play a role in finding a political solution to Russia's war in Ukraine, according to a readout of the meeting Xi had with Russian President Vladimir Putin Monday. The meeting marked the first of a three-day visit to Russia. The readout, as published by Chinese state news agency Xinhua, said China and Russia "shared similar goals" and Xi and Putin “exchanged in-depth views on the Ukraine issue" during their conversation. Xi emphasized that "voices of peace and reason are constantly gathering, and the majority of countries support easing tensions, advocating reconciliation and talks, and oppose fueling the fire," according to the readout. It also said “conflicts eventually need to be resolved through dialogue and negotiation,” reminding that China had recently issued a paper calling for a political solution to end the conflict, which the readout refers to as the “Ukrainian crisis.”  The readout added that China’s proposal on a political solution "opposes Cold War mentality, and opposes unilateral sanctions" and it is “willing to continue to play a constructive role in promoting a political solution to the Ukraine issue." China’s readout said Putin appreciated China’s “fair, objective and balanced position” on international issues and that Russia "holds an open attitude towards peace talks, and welcomes China’s constructive role in that regard.” ##Xi Putin## Chinese leader Xi Jinping began a three-day visit to Moscow on Monday, his first since President Vladimir Putin launched his full-scale invasion of Ukraine. Talks between the two leaders lasted more than four hours and the leaders are expected to continue more formal meetings Tuesday. Here are the latest headlines: Moscow meeting: During the meeting, Xi told Putin that China and Russia have "similar goals" and he expressed support for Putin to be reelected. US officials, for their part, were paying close attention to the talks. John Kirby, the National Security Council communications coordinator, said the US remains concerned that Xi would reiterate calls for a ceasefire in Ukraine that would only benefit Moscow by allowing Russian forces to remain inside Ukrainian territory. Tanks delivered: Norway delivered eight Leopard 2 tanks to Ukraine, the Norwegian Armed Forces announced. Training for Ukrainian soldiers on the tanks is underway in Poland. Last month, Norway announced its decision to send the German-manufactured tanks, with Prime Minister Jonas Gahr Støre noting “several allied countries have also done the same.” At the beginning of February, the Norwegian government also announced it had decided to order 54 German Leopard 2 tanks to strengthen its own defense capabilities which were expected to be delivered in 2026. Ammunition and aid for Ukraine: Eighteen European nations have agreed to jointly procure ammunition to “aid Ukraine and replenish national stockpiles,” the European Defence Agency said in a news release on Monday. The Biden administration also authorized an additional $350 million in security aid, Secretary of State Antony Blinken announced. The Presidential Drawdown includes “more ammunition for U.S.-provided HIMARS and howitzers that Ukraine is using to defend itself, as well as ammunition for Bradley Infantry Fighting Vehicles, HARM missiles, anti-tank weapons, riverine boats, and other equipment,” Blinken said in a statement. For perspective: The US has committed more than $32 billion in Presidential Drawdown funds to aid Ukraine since Russia's invasion began more than one year ago. Latest on Bakhmut: The chief of Russia's Wagner private military group Yevgeny Prigozhin said Monday in an open letter to the Russian defense minister that the mercenary force controls around 70% of Bakhmut. A months-long battle continues in the eastern city and earlier this month, Prigozhin acknowledged that the situation was “difficult, very difficult, with the enemy fighting each other for each meter.” Also today: Justice ministers from around the world met in London to discuss ramping up support for the International Criminal Court’s efforts to investigate alleged Russian war crimes in Ukraine. Dr. Karen Donfried, the top State Department official for Europe who has been a key player in the Biden administration’s approach to the Ukraine war is departing her post, Blinken announced on Monday. ##Xi Putin## ##Catch Up## Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said EU plans to accelerate the supply of ammunition to Ukraine gives him "confidence in our unity."  “This decision is worth 2 billion euros. It provides for both immediate delivery and production of ammunition. This is a strategic move,” he said in his nightly address on Monday. “It gives us confidence in our unity, in the immutability of the progress towards victory over the terrorist state. I am grateful to all our partners in Europe. To all those who are truly committed to making Europe strong and free," he added. More on this: Earlier today, Estonia’s Defense Minister Hanno Pevkur said that following a meeting in Brussels, European Union member states agreed on the joint procurement of one million rounds of 155mm artillery ammunition for Ukraine. Seventeen EU member states and Norway agreed to jointly procure ammunition to “aid Ukraine and replenish national stockpiles,” the European Defence Agency (EDA) explained later in a news release. In his nightly address, Zelensky also reiterated his thanks to the United States for its latest military aid package announcement. He called the $350 million package “all that is truly necessary to support our soldiers”. The White House maintained its skeptical view of this week’s summit between Presidents Xi Jinping and Vladimir Putin, suggesting there was little evidence the talks could yield positive developments for Ukraine. John Kirby, the National Security Council communications coordinator, told reporters the US remains concerned that Xi would reiterate calls for a ceasefire in Ukraine that would only benefit Russia by allowing Russian forces to remain inside Ukrainian territory. He said there wasn’t evidence yet that Beijing was moving forward with providing Moscow with weapons, but he said the option hasn’t been taken off the table. “We'll see what they come out of this meeting talking about. I mean, we don't know if there's going to be some sort of arrangement, I would just tell you that we still don't believe that China is taking it off the table,” he said. He told CNN’s Phil Mattingly the US views Russia as China’s “junior partner.” A prospective phone call between Xi and President Biden remains in the cards, but will only occur at the “most appropriate time,” Kirby said. In the meantime, the administration still hopes for Secretary of State Antony Blinken to visit Beijing and is working on arranging economic visits by Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen and Commerce Secretary Gina Raimondo to China. ##Xi Putin## US President Joe Biden is interested in talking again with Chinese leader Xi Jinping, according to John Kirby, the National Security Council strategic communications coordinator. Xi is currently in Moscow on a three-day visit hosted by Russian President Vladimir Putin. Nothing has been scheduled between the US and Chinese leaders yet, Kirby said. US officials want to make sure “it's at the appropriate time,” he added. "It's important that we keep those lines of communication open, particularly now, when tensions are so high," he said. Biden met with Xi for three hours in November on the sidelines of the G20 summit in Bali. It was their first in-person encounter since Biden took office. At the time, the president told reporters he was “open and candid” with Xi about the range of matters where Beijing and Washington disagree. Kirby also said the US wants to reschedule Secretary of State Blinken's visit to Beijing. It was postponed in February in response to the flying of a suspected Chinese spy balloon. Blinken intends to travel to China "at the earliest opportunity when conditions allow," a State Department official said last month, though the official did not elaborate on what conditions the US is watching for. Kirby also said the US is having "active discussions" with China about Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen and Secretary of Commerce Gina Raimondo visiting the country. ##Xi Putin## President Volodymyr Zelensky on Monday thanked President Joe Biden “and the American people” after the US administration authorized an additional $350 million in security aid for Ukraine. “HIMARS rockets, 155mm shells, HARM missiles & other items worth $350 million are a great contribution to repelling the invaders,” Zelensky tweeted. Some more on this: On Monday, Secretary of State Antony Blinken announced the Biden administration has authorized an additional $350 million in security aid for Ukraine. The aid includes “more ammunition for U.S.-provided HIMARS and howitzers that Ukraine is using to defend itself, as well as ammunition for Bradley Infantry Fighting Vehicles, HARM missiles, anti-tank weapons, riverine boats, and other equipment,” Blinken said.  Drawdown packages are pulled directly from US weapons stocks and can be shipped quickly to Ukraine.  Blinken on Monday reiterated that the US will stand with Ukraine “for as long as it takes.” There is currently no evidence that China is supplying weapons to Russia, a Ukrainian intelligence official said Monday. "There are cases when (President Vladimir) Putin’s regime, the Russian Federation, purchases drones, civilian goods from open sources and uses microchips from those goods. However, no evidence of arms deliveries have been recorded. Ukraine is monitoring closely," Andriy Yusov, a representative of Ukraine’s Defense Intelligence, told national television. Yusov spoke as Putin was hosting Chinese leader Xi Jinping for a three-day visit to Moscow. Western leaders have expressed skepticism about China’s potential role as a peacemaker and its claimed neutrality. The United States and its allies have also been warning that China is considering sending lethal aid to Russia for its war effort, which Beijing has denied.   ##Xi Putin## The United States hopes that Chinese leader Xi Jinping, during his meetings with Russian President Vladimir Putin, advocates for a resolution to the war in Ukraine that includes a complete withdrawal of Russian troops, the White House said. John Kirby, the National Security Council strategic communications coordinator, pointed to China's own peace plan that includes the principle of respecting the sovereignty of all countries. He encouraged Xi to “advocate for this exact, essential key point, which must include the withdrawal” of Russian forces from Ukrainian territory “consistent with the UN charter.” Ukrainian leaders have also put together a peace plan “which draws again on the same UN principles," Kirby said during a press briefing at the White House. He said the war could end immediately if Putin withdrew troops from Ukraine. “We are concerned that instead, China will reiterate calls for a ceasefire that leaves Russian forces inside Ukraine’s sovereign territory," Kirby said. “Any ceasefire that does not address the removal of Russian forces from Ukraine would effectively ratify Russia’s illegal conquest," he added. On Monday, after Xi arrived in Moscow, US Secretary of State Blinken reiterated these concerns, saying any plans for a ceasefire without the removal of Russian forces would “allow President Putin to rest and refit his troops, and then restart the war at a time more advantageous to Russia.” ##Xi Putin## Talks between Russian President Vladimir Putin and Chinese leader Xi Jinping – who arrived in Moscow on Monday for a three-day visit – have concluded, according to Russian state news agency RIA Novosti. The talks lasted for 4.5 hours, according to RIA. The two leaders are expected to hold further formal meetings tomorrow. ##Xi Putin##  Norway has delivered eight Leopard 2 tanks to Ukraine, the Norwegian Armed Forces announced on Monday. Training for Ukrainian soldiers on the tanks is underway in Poland, the Norwegian Armed Forces added.   Norway last month announced its decision to send the German-manufactured tanks, with Prime Minister Jonas Gahr Støre noting “several allied countries have also done the same.”  At the beginning of February, the Norwegian government also announced it had decided to order 54 German Leopard 2 tanks to strengthen its own defense capabilities which were expected to be delivered in 2026. More background on the tanks: Germany announced in January that it would provide Leopard 2 tanks to Kyiv’s troops after weeks of geopolitical squabbling. The announcement was matched by the US, with President Joe Biden saying that he was providing 31 M1 Abrams tanks to Ukraine. CNN's Rob Picheta contributed reporting to this post.  US Secretary of State Antony Blinken said that Chinese President Xi Jinping’s visit with Russian President Vladimir Putin in Moscow shows China’s intent to provide “diplomatic cover” for Russia's "atrocities committed in Ukraine" instead of condemning them. “That President Xi is traveling to Russia days after the International Criminal Court issued an arrest warrant for President Putin suggests that China feels no responsibility to hold the Kremlin accountable for the atrocities committed in Ukraine, and instead of even condemning them, it would rather provide diplomatic cover for Russia to continue to commit those very crimes,” said Blinken at a news conference at the State Department on the release of the 2022 Human Rights Report. However, Blinken said that “elements” of China’s peace proposal for the war were in line with efforts the US would support.  “China’s proposal includes elements that we have long supported, including ensuring nuclear safety, resolving the humanitarian crisis, protecting civilians and, indeed, the first element calls for upholding sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of all counties,” said Blinken. But he said any calls for a ceasefire “that does not include the removal of Russian forces from Ukrainian territory would effectively be supporting the ratification of Russian conquest” as it would “allow President Putin to rest and refit his troops, and then restart the war at a time more advantageous to Russia.”  “The world should not be fooled by any tactical move by Russia, supported by China or any other country, to freeze the war on its own terms,” said Blinken.  ##Xi Putin## The chief of Russia's Wagner private military group Yevgeny Prigozhin said Monday in an open letter to the Russian defense minister that Wagner forces control around 70% of the eastern Ukrainian city of Bakhmut. A months-long battle continues in the city and earlier this month, Prigozhin acknowledged that the situation in Bakhmut was “difficult, very difficult, with the enemy fighting each other for each meter.” "At the moment, Wagner units control around 70 percent of the city of Bakhmut and are continuing operations to complete the liberation of the city," Prigozin wrote Monday in the letter published on Telegram.  Prigozhin asked Shoigu to take measures to prevent a potential upcoming offensive by Ukrainian troops in late March or early April, which Prigozhin said will cut off Wagner forces from Russian troops in eastern Ukraine.  What Ukraine is saying: Prigozhin's comments come after Ukraine's military on Saturday claimed Wagner mercenaries have suffered “colossal losses” in the battle for Bahkmut and have had to seek reinforcements from Russian paratroopers. “According to what we see Bakhmut will be the last battlefield for the infamous military actions of PMC Wagner because of this extensive offensive, where they ‘throw in’ all of their mercenaries and then the ex-prisoners,” Serhii Cherevatyi, spokesperson for the Eastern Grouping of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, said while speaking on national television. “Now we see that they are reinforced by units of the regular army. First of all, the airborne troops.”  CNN is unable to independently verify Prigozhin's claims or Ukrainian claims of Russian casualties. Meanwhile, Prigozhin announced on Saturday that he plans to recruit about 30,000 new fighters by mid-May, according to a voice message published on Telegram. Seventeen EU member states and Norway have agreed to jointly procure ammunition to “aid Ukraine and replenish national stockpiles,” the European Defence Agency (EDA) said in a news release on Monday. Earlier Monday, Estonia’s Defense Minister Hanno Pevkur said that following a meeting in Brussels, European Union member states had agreed on the joint procurement of one million rounds of 155mm artillery ammunition for Ukraine. “The project opens the way for EU Member States and Norway to proceed along two paths: a two-year, fast-track procedure for 155mm artillery rounds and a seven-year project to acquire multiple ammunition types,” the European Defence Agency said. The 18 European nations include: Austria, Belgium, Croatia, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Luxembourg, Malta, the Netherlands, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Sweden and Norway. The EDA said that this project “sends a clear message to industry and strengthens the EU’s support for Ukraine following Russia’s war of aggression,” adding that more countries have expressed intent to join the initiative. “Today, we take a step forward. We are delivering on our promises to provide Ukraine with more artillery ammunition. With today’s signature, 18 countries have signed up to aggregate orders and place them together with the industry through the European Defence Agency. The Ukrainian authorities have been clear about their needs and this EDA project is part of the EU response. By procuring together through the EDA framework and mobilising financial support from the European Peace Facility, we will deliver to Ukraine more and faster. We are again breaking a taboo and unlocking the potential of EU cooperation in joint procurement,” EU’s top diplomat Josep Borrell said. According to the EDA, the agency has been working since November of last year to identify critical shortfalls on three areas: ammunition, soldier systems and chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear (CBRN) equipment. This project provides a seven-year framework “to commonly procure multiple types and calibers of ammunition (5.56 mm to 155 mm) to replenish national stocks.” The State Department’s human rights report this year highlights the war crimes and other atrocities committed by Russia in Ukraine which have resulted in “massive death and destruction,” US Secretary of State Antony Blinken writes in the report’s preface. “There were credible reports of summary execution, torture, rape, indiscriminate attacks, and attacks deliberately targeting civilians and civilian infrastructure by Russia’s forces in Ukraine, all of which constitute war crimes. The Russian government engaged in the forced deportation of civilians from Ukraine to Russia, often following a harsh and abusive “filtration” process, and there were numerous reports of forced deportations and adoptions of children from Ukraine,” the report says. The report comes just days after the International Criminal Court issued a warrant for Russian President Vladimir Putin for an alleged scheme to deport Ukrainian children to Russia. It says that “thousands” of Ukrainians have been subject to forced deportation to Russia. Russia’s authoritarian political system is “dominated by President Vladimir Putin,” the report says. But it does not draw specific connections between Putin and the war crimes committed in Ukraine.   The report highlights the Kremlin’s efforts to shut down dissent, specifically highlighting the government’s “severe suppression of free expression and media,” use of “excessive force and other harsh tactics” to detain antiwar protestors, and specific efforts to penalize students who voiced opposition to the war.  “According to human rights organizations, hundreds of university students were expelled during the year for their political views. For example, on March 9, the Ministry of Internal Affairs reportedly ordered Saint Petersburg State University to expel 13 students who participated in antiwar protests,” the report says. The report says that Russian law enforcement officers used “torture, including sleep deprivation, as a form of punishment against detained opposition and human rights activists, journalists, and critics of government policies.”   The situation in the town of Avdiivka, located north of the city of Donetsk in eastern Ukraine, is “really difficult and hard to control,” Special Forces soldier Maj. Maksym Morozov told Ukrainian television on Monday. Morozov, who is in the Avdiivka area, said Russian forces are “advancing despite huge losses” and are “pushing from both sides,” meaning the north and the south of the town. “The situation in Avdiivka is getting more serious. The enemy is exchanging their massive losses for meters of our land. They are using enormous amounts of ammunition, striking both (our) positions and the city; there is a huge number of rocket strikes, air strikes, artillery (shelling),” he said. “They are gaining success because they are attacking in waves — first there goes the ‘cannon fodder’ and then professionals are going behind them, the special forces who are trying to strike our firing lines," he said.   “Russians are using various tactics — night infantry attacks, armoured groups supported by a tank or aviation, rocket strikes. Our armed forces are bravely repelling the attacks,” Morozov added. Meanwhile, Hanna Maliar, Ukraine’s deputy defence minister, said Monday that “the enemy offensive is ongoing in several directions,” noting offensive action in Bilohorivka, Avdiivka, Vuhledar and Mariinka. She said the Ukrainian army is “making progress in certain areas.” Some background: There are about 2,000 civilians remaining in Avdiivka, according to Ukrainian officials. Several children had been evacuated, and over the past three weeks alone, 150 people had left the town, Vitaliy Barabash, head of the Avdiivka Civil-Military Administration, told local TV channel Espresso. CNN's Svitlana Vlasova and Tim Lister contributed reporting to this post. The Biden administration has authorized an additional $350 million in security aid for Ukraine, Secretary of State Antony Blinken announced on Monday. The Presidential Drawdown includes “more ammunition for U.S.-provided HIMARS and howitzers that Ukraine is using to defend itself, as well as ammunition for Bradley Infantry Fighting Vehicles, HARM missiles, anti-tank weapons, riverine boats, and other equipment,” Blinken said in a statement. Drawdown packages are pulled directly from US weapons stocks and can be shipped quickly to Ukraine.  Blinken on Monday reiterated that the US will stand with Ukraine “for as long as it takes.” “Russia alone could end its war today,” he said. “Until Russia does, we will stand united with Ukraine for as long as it takes.” More context: The last Presidential Drawdown of US equipment for Ukraine was announced earlier this month, and was valued at $400 million. That package included, for the first time, Armored Vehicle Launched Bridges, a system used to launch bridges to cross trenches and narrow water obstacles. The US has committed more than $32 billion in Presidential Drawdown funds to aid Ukraine since Russia's full-scale invasion began more than one year ago. European Union member states have agreed on the joint procurement of one million rounds of 155mm artillery ammunition for Ukraine, Estonia’s Defense Minister said Monday. Following a meeting with his EU counterparts in Brussels, Hanno Pevkur tweeted that “political consensus had been reached – 1 million rounds of 155mm to Ukraine." As the war stretches into its second year, Ukraine is burning through ammunition faster than the US and NATO can currently produce it. Speaking after the meeting in Brussels, German Defense Minister Boris Pistorius said he was confident ammunition production can be increased quickly. Pistorius said he will be awaiting offers from ammunition manufacturers until the end of March, noting the importance of speed when it comes to supplying Ukraine. Ukraine’s Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba told the meeting “the highest priority need is artillery ammunition. It is not only about the quantity, but also about the speed of delivery. The sooner we get as many shells as possible, the more lives will be saved,” according to a readout from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine.  Before the meeting, the EU’s top diplomat Josep Borrell told reporters he was confident production capacity could be increased to provide 2 billion euros (or about $2.1 billion) worth of ammunition. “In order to increase our production capacity there has to be clear prospects for demand. That is why, there are three tracks that go together," Borrell said, according to remarks published online. “First, the ones [ammunitions] that we already have. Second, the ones that have to be produced. Third, the industrial capacity to produce more. It is one after the other and all together, it makes a comprehensive and coherent package. Funding is there. Capacities are there. They have to be increased and Member States have to act together in order to be more efficient." The European Union’s 2 billion euro ammunition plan for Ukraine is “a very strong step to protect European security,” Andriy Yermak, the head of the Ukrainian President’s Office, tweeted Monday in response to the announcement. The EU has not yet provided further details of the agreement. China and Russia "share similar goals," Chinese President Xi Jinping said in a meeting with Russian President Vladimir Putin on Monday during a visit to Moscow. "It is true that both of our countries share the same, or some similar goals. We have exerted efforts for the prosperity of our respective countries…we can cooperate and work together to achieve our goals," Xi said. "I'm very happy that I can visit Russia again, at your invitation. And that Russia is the first country that I visited after my re-election as China's President," Xi told Putin. Xi also expressed support for Putin to be reelected. "I know that the Russia presidential election is next year. Russia's development has significantly improved under your firm leadership. I believe that the Russian people will continue to strongly support you,” he said. Xi said China “highly values” China-Russia ties and that both countries can cooperate to fulfill their development goals. ##Xi Putin##  A delivery of German Marder infantry fighting vehicles is on its way to Ukraine, German Defense Minister Boris Pistorius said on the sidelines of an EU Foreign and Defense Ministers meeting in Brussels on Monday.  Germany announced in January it would provide Ukraine with 40 of the Marder vehicles. Later that month, it said Ukrainian soldiers had arrived in Germany for training on the vehicles. More on the vehicles: The Marder is designed to move soldiers around the battlefield. It has been used by the German military since the early 1970s but continuously upgraded. The German military is in the process of phasing it out, but hundreds are still in service. In remarks at the Kremlin, Russian President Vladimir Putin welcomed Chinese President Xi Jinping. “In the last few years, China has made a colossal leap forward,” Putin told Xi, sitting beside him. “In the whole world, this evokes interest, and unfortunately even envy.” He continued, “Symbolically, we met here 10 years during your first visit as an elected representative of China. In this time, we made progress in relations. We have many common interests and goals.” Putin also told Xi that Russia is ready to discuss Beijing's proposals for resolving the crisis in Ukraine, saying that Moscow has "studied closely" the proposals. "Of course, we will have an opportunity to discuss this issue. We know that you are based on the principles of justice and commitment to the fundamental points of international law,” Putin said.  “You are also aware that we are always open to the negotiation process. We will certainly discuss all these issues, including your initiative,” he added. Putin also said that he respects China’s balanced approach to the issue. More on Beijing's proposal: Western leaders have expressed skepticism about China’s potential role as a peacemaker and its claimed neutrality. The United States and its allies have instead since last month warned that China is considering sending lethal aid to Russia for its war effort, which Beijing has denied. Watch the moment here: ##Xi Putin## Chinese leader Xi Jinping is meeting with President Vladimir Putin now, according to Russian state media RIA Novosti. ##Xi Putin## The Biden administration said it is watching China’s President Xi Jinping’s trip to Moscow “very, very closely” as top officials express concerns about any calls for a ceasefire at this time. “A ceasefire called right now would basically just ratify Russia's conquest and give Mr. Putin more time to really equip and retrain and restart operations at a time and a place of his choosing,” John Kirby, National Security Council coordinator for strategic communications, told Kaitlan Collins during an appearance on “CNN This Morning.” He said the US would “reject” any calls for a ceasefire out of the high-stakes meeting as he reiterated that it would not be “in China’s best interest” to provide arms to Ukraine. The Russia-China relationship, Kirby said, is “a marriage of convenience, not of affection.” “These are two countries that don't have a heck of a whole lot of trust between one another, but they find common cause in pushing back on the West, in pushing back on American leadership,” he said. Kirby said the US has not seen any confirmation of a call between Xi and Ukraine’s President Volodymyr Zelensky, but encouraged a discussion. “If you're going to go to Moscow, and you're going to sit down for three days with President Putin, and you're going to get his perspective on a war that he started, and that he could finish today. You ought to pick up the phone at the very least, and talk to President Zelensky and get the Ukrainian perspective here,” he said. Kirby downplayed Putin’s weekend trip to Mariupol, Ukraine, noting it was “far away from the front lines of the fighting” in Ukraine. “It was a convenient excuse for him to go in advance of Xi's visit to show that he's still the commander-in-chief, that he's still in charge, and that his military still has occupied territory inside Ukraine. There's no doubt that, that he could see for himself — or we would hope that he would see for himself — how bad