South Korean celebrity couple Se7en and Lee Da-hae are getting married in May. The K-pop singer and his actress fiancée shared the news of their upcoming nuptials in separate posts on Instagram. Se7en, whose real name is Choi Dong-wook, told his 551,000 followers that he had "happy news" to share. "I have vowed to marry my girlfriend Lee Da-hae, who always embraced me with love, and shared joy and sorrow together for the past eight years," he said, revealing that the wedding would take place on May 6. Pledging his commitment to his bride-to-be, the 38-year-old singer wrote: "From now on, I will live with more responsibility as a head of a family and a husband." Lee's post on her Instagram page was accompanied by a series of wedding pictures. In South Korea, couples commonly have their wedding pictures taken ahead of the ceremony and then often use the images for digital invitations and social media. The post features four pictures of the happy couple in different settings and different outfits. In one, she is pictured in a sleeveless floor-length lace gown, while Se7en wears a tailored gray suit with black bow tie. Another sees the couple outside a pink hotel, with Se7en in a pink blazer and shorts, with his wife to be in a lacy mini wedding dress. One shot features a close-up of the bride, while the final image shows the pair in profile by the sea at sunset. Lee told her 207,000 followers: "It may not be a big surprising as we have been dating for eight years, but I am still shy. I pondered a lot about how I should share the news. "We have vowed to become a husband and wife from a long-term couple this coming May. Although I'm still used to calling him a 'boyfriend,' I will become more considerate and a bigger supporter of 'him,' who gave me big happiness by staying by my side and now will be my forever companion. "It will be a huge happiness for us if we can get married in your love and blessings." Se7en released his debut album "Just Listen" in 2003. His career has also extended to acting. In 2007, he played the lead role in TV drama "Goong S" (Palace S.) He has also starred in four musicals and numerous commercials, including for Coca-Cola. Lee has featured in many popular TV dramas, including "Good Witch" in 2018 and "Chuno" ("Slave Hunters") in 2010, and the 2013 spy movie "IRIS 2."