Wendy Brundige is Senior Vice President of Content Strategy for CNN Digital Worldwide. Wendy leads efforts to create and execute a cohesive content strategy across all storytelling formats -- video, audio, visual and written. Prior to taking on an expanded leadership role at CNN, Brundige served as SVP of Global Video. She oversaw CNN's original video team, which produces everything from breaking news videos to news explainers, to feature content across all verticals, including national and international news, politics, business, health, travel and more. She also oversaw all video distribution across CNN's large digital portfolio and social accounts. Brundige joined CNN in 2014 as a supervising producer and expanded her portfolio and responsibilities through the years to encompass all global digital video efforts with teams in six bureaus around the world, working across all global time zones. Before joining CNN, Brundige served as Bloomberg TV's West Coast bureau chief and executive producer of "Bloomberg West," the network's daily, one-hour newscast focused on covering media and technology live from San Francisco. In her three years at Bloomberg, she led the expansion of "Bloomberg West" from one to two hours each weekday and expanded overall tech coverage across Bloomberg TV. "Bloomberg West" became a destination for real-time, on location coverage of the biggest stories in tech, including notable IPOs like Facebook and Twitter, the early days of future 'unicorn' start-ups and Silicon Valley culture. Brundige began her career at ABC News, where she spent more than seven years working across the network on shows such as "Good Morning America," "World News," "20/20" and "Nightline." She served as the network's Seattle bureau producer responsible for covering breaking news in the Western U.S. for all ABC News platforms, among other roles. While at ABC, she traveled to cover numerous breaking stories including the Fukushima nuclear meltdown in 2011 and the BP oil spill along the U.S. Gulf Coast in 2010. Brundige received her undergraduate degree in broadcast journalism and political science from the University of Southern California. She lives in New York City with her husband and daughter.