Jon Rahm poses with the Masters trophy during the green jacket ceremony, after winning the Masters tournament on Sunday, April 9. Rahm celebrates his win on the 18th green. Patrick Cantlay hits his putt on the 15th green during the final round on Sunday. Mickelson reacts on the 18th green during the final round. Viktor Hovland putts on the fifth green during the final round. Brooks Koepka plays his shot from the eighth tee during the continuation of the weather-delayed third round on Sunday. The scoreboard is changed after Tiger Woods withdrew from competition on Sunday. Sam Bennett watches his putt on the 12th green during the third round on Sunday. Patrick Cantlay tees up during the third round Sunday. Tiger Woods walks the 18th green during the second round on Saturday, April 8. A spectator watches play on the 12th hole in the rain on Saturday. Fred Couples waves to patrons after finishing his second round on Saturday. Couples made history as the oldest player to make the cut at the Masters. Groundskeepers remove standing water on green during the continuation of the weather-delayed second round on Saturday. Patrick Cantlay plays a shot from a bunker on the 18th hole on Saturday. A security guard moves people away from trees that blew over on the 17th hole of the Augusta National Golf Club on Friday. No injuries were reported. Brooks Koepka tees off on the 10th hole Friday. He is 12 under par heading into the weekend. Jason Day and William Kane, caddie for Gordon Sargent, read the first green on Friday. Woods tees off on the eighth hole Friday. Amateur Sam Bennett plays a shot on the second hole Friday. He shot 68s on both Thursday and Friday. Jon Rahm plays out from the bunker on the second hole Friday. Billy Horschel reacts to a shot on the second hole Friday. Viktor Hovland chips onto the 10th green Thursday. The Norwegian shot a 7-under 65 and shared the first-round lead with Koepka and Rahm. Patrick Reed's caddie, Kessler Karain, helps Reed line up a putt on the 13th hole Thursday. Woods grimaces on the fourth tee Thursday. The five-time Masters champion said his surgically repaired right leg felt sore Thursday and that the pain is "constant." Phil Mickelson hits a shot on the second hole Thursday. Adam Scott plays a bunker shot on the second hole Thursday. Pins adorn a spectator's hat on Thursday. Defending Masters champion Scottie Scheffler hits his tee shot on the seventh hole Thursday. Sergio Garcia fishes his ball out of the creek on No. 13. A worker updates one of the leaderboards Thursday at Augusta National. Koepka hits his tee shot on the 14th hole Thursday. Hideki Matsuyama, who won the tournament two years ago, looks over a putt on the second hole. Rahm and his caddie, Adam Hayes, are seen on the third green Thursday. Golf legend Jack Nicklaus hits a ceremonial tee shot before the start of the first round. He was joined by Gary Player and Tom Watson. Rory McIlroy signs autographs after competing in the traditional par 3 contest that is held the day before the start of the tournament. Min Woo Lee walks to the 15th green during a practice round Wednesday.