Former US President Donald Trump sits in a New York courtroom with his defense team on Tuesday, April 4. Masked devotees take part in a Holy Monday procession in Logroño, Spain, on April 3. UConn basketball player Tristen Newton is lifted in the postgame celebrations after the Huskies won the NCAA Tournament final on Monday, April 3. They defeated San Diego State 76-59 to win the fifth national title in school history. Ukrainian servicemen hold a huge national flag during a ceremony in Bucha, Ukraine, on Friday, March 31. Friday marked the one-year anniversary of the liberation of Bucha, a town that has become synonymous with Russia's brutal occupation and alleged war crimes. A plane carrying former US President Donald Trump lands at New York's LaGuardia Airport on Monday, April 3. It was the day before Trump's arraignment. Children shout at Tennessee state lawmakers inside the state capitol in Nashville on Monday, April 3. They were among those protesting gun violence and calling for reforms after a mass shooting left six people dead last month at a private elementary school in the city. This aerial photo shows tornado damage in Wynne, Arkansas, on Saturday, April 1. A storm outbreak the day before spawned more than 50 tornado reports in at least seven states. LSU basketball player Angel Reese gestures toward her ring finger in the final moments of the national championship game against Iowa on Sunday, April 2. LSU defeated Iowa 102-85 to win its first-ever championship in women's college basketball. The gestures Reese made toward Iowa star Caitlin Clark at the end of the game sparked much debate, especially on social media. Reese defended her actions and called out a double standard, saying Clark engaged in similar trash talk during the tournament and wasn't criticized. Clark also defended Reese. Young Buddhist monks play between prayers at a monastery in Tawang, India, on Wednesday, April 5. White House press secretary Karine Jean-Pierre calls on someone during the daily press briefing on Thursday, March 30. Police form a cordon between a vandalized shop window and a fire that was set on the street during demonstrations in Paris on Thursday, April 6. There have been nationwide protests in France since the government raised the retirement age for most workers from 62 to 64. Fishermen claim a bottle of beer from a derailed rail car on the banks of the Clark Fork River in Montana on Sunday, April 2. A freight train derailed with approximately 25 cars. No injuries were reported. New York Mets center fielder Brandon Nimmo slides into second base as Milwaukee shortstop Willy Adames tries to make a tag during a Major League Baseball game on Monday, April 3. Damage from an intercepted rocket is seen at a shopping center in Shlomi, Israel, on Thursday, April 6. Dozens of rockets were fired from Lebanon into Israel, the Israeli military said, in a major escalation that comes amid regional tensions over Israeli police raids at the al-Aqsa mosque in Jerusalem. It was the largest such attack since a 2006 war between the two countries left around 1,200 Lebanese people and 165 Israelis dead. A car carrying Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky and first lady Olena Zelenska arrives at the Presidential Palace in Warsaw, Poland, on Wednesday, April 5. It was Zelensky's first formal visit to the country since Russia invaded Ukraine last year. From left, astronauts Jeremy Hansen, Victor Glover, Reid Wiseman and Christina Hammock Koch celebrate on Monday, April 3, after being selected for the upcoming Artemis II mission. The lunar flyby, scheduled for November 2024, will be the first crewed moon mission in five decades. Pope Francis consoles Serena Subania as he leaves a hospital in Rome on Saturday, April 1. Her 5-year-old daughter, Angelica, died the night before at the same hospital that the Pope had received treatment for bronchitis. A man sweeps debris Wednesday, April 5, after an Israeli police raid at the al- Aqsa mosque in Jerusalem. Police stormed the mosque on two separate occasions Wednesday as Palestinian worshippers offered prayers during the holy month of Ramadan. Police said they entered the mosque and made more than 350 arrests after "hundreds of rioters" tried to barricade themselves inside. The incident sparked retaliatory rocket fire from Gaza into Israel. German ski jumper Andreas Wellinger competes in a World Cup event in Planica, Slovenia, on Saturday, April 1. Demonstrators force their way into the building that houses BlackRock's office in Paris on Thursday, April 6. They were taking their protest against the government's pension reforms to the world's biggest money manager. About 100 people, including representatives of several labor unions, were on the ground floor of the building for about 10 minutes, chanting anti-reform slogans. Former US President Donald Trump arrives to deliver remarks at his Mar-a-Lago resort in Florida on Tuesday, April 4. Earlier in the day, he pleaded not guilty to 34 counts of falsifying business records. Speaking at Mar-a-Lago, he told his supporters he "never thought anything like this could happen in America." San Diego State's Lamont Butler shoots a game-winning buzzer beater to defeat Florida Atlantic in the Final Four on Saturday, April 1. A dancer performs with fire during a Gammaduwa performance at a Buddhist temple in Colombo, Sri Lanka, on Friday, March 31. A military school student attends a parade in Dakar, Senegal, marking the country's Independence Day on Tuesday, April 4. This aerial photo shows Muslims breaking their Ramadan fast together in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, on Sunday, April 2. Tennessee state Rep. Justin Jones carries his name tag after he was expelled from the House of Representatives on Thursday, April 6. Tennessee's Republican-controlled House voted to expel Jones and Rep. Justin Pearson a week after they led a gun reform protest on the House floor. A vote to expel the third Democrat involved, Rep. Gloria Johnson, failed. A demonstrator holds Palestinian flags next to burning tires during a protest at the Israel-Gaza border fence on Wednesday, April 5. People take photos on the promenade in Blackpool, England, on Thursday, April 6. People honor their ancestors at a cemetery in Hong Kong on Wednesday, April 5. During the Qingming Festival, also known as Tomb Sweeping Day, people visit their ancestors' graves to clean up and burn offerings. A railroad crossing is seen in the middle of a flooded meadow in Nidderau, Germany, on Monday, April 3. Large areas in the lowlands were flooded after days of rain. UConn's Andre Jackson Jr. dunks the ball during his team's Final Four victory over Miami on Saturday, April 1. People in an ambulance mourn next to the body of a family member who died in a crowd crush in Karachi, Pakistan, on Friday, March 31. At least 13 people were killed and 10 were injured in the crush, which happened among people waiting for Ramadan food donations. A water buffalo grazes in a field in front of the Nahr Bin Omar oil field near Basra, Iraq, on Tuesday, April 4. A television news reporter is seen outside Trump Tower in New York on Monday, April 3. Former US President Donald Trump was staying there ahead of his arraignment on Tuesday. A child runs in the drained Reflecting Pool near the Lincoln Memorial in Washington, DC, on Wednesday, April 5. The pool is drained and scrubbed around this time each year. See last week in 33 photos.