US President Joe Biden said the arrest warrant issued by the International Criminal Court for Russian President Vladimir Putin “makes a very strong point." “I think it’s justified,” Biden told CNN’s Jeremy Diamond on Friday. The US leader acknowledged the court's authority is not recognized by Russia or the US, "but I think it makes a very strong point," he said.  Putin has “clearly committed war crimes,” Biden added. The White House said it welcomed accountability for perpetrators of war crimes but stopped short of a full-throated endorsement of the ICC’s arrest warrant when it issued an initial statement earlier Friday. National Security Council spokesperson John Kirby declined to say whether Biden would tell law enforcement to arrest Putin if he came to the US. Putin traveling to the country in the first place is "very, very unlikely," Kirby told CNN's Jake Tapper.  ##Putin Warrant## The International Criminal Court’s decision to issue an arrest warrant for Russian President Vladimir Putin for war crimes means that “the international justice wheels" have begun to turn, Ukrainian Ambassador to the United States Oksana Markarova said Friday. It's symbolic that the first crime for which Putin now faces an arrest order is "the most horrific one," the forceful deportation of children, she told CNN's Wolf Blitzer. The ICC said Putin and the Russian commissioner for children’s rights, Maria Lvova-Belova, are both responsible in the alleged scheme to forcibly deport thousands of Ukrainian children to Russia. Markarova called on ICC states to uphold the warrant, warning Putin the only "safe travel" should be his journey to the Hague, where the court operates. She said all Ukrainians deserve to see Putin face trial. ##Putin Warrant## The International Criminal Court (ICC) has issued arrest warrants for Russian President Vladimir Putin and the Russian commissioner for children’s rights, Maria Lvova-Belova for their roles in the alleged scheme to forcibly deport thousands of Ukrainian children to Russia. Moscow said the court has “no meaning” for the country, as Ukrainian officials praised the announcement. Here's everything you need to know: Arrest warrants: The court said there “are reasonable grounds to believe that Mr. Putin bears individual criminal responsibility” for the alleged crimes, for having committed them directly alongside others, and for “his failure to exercise control properly over civilian and military subordinates who committed the acts.” ICC Chief Prosecutor Karim Khan said no one should feel like "they have a free pass" and it is not outside the realm of possibility that Putin could be tried at some point. Reports of Ukrainian children in Russia: The Ukrainian government says many missing children have been forcibly taken to Russia. The Russian government doesn’t deny taking Ukrainian children and has made their adoption by Russian families a centerpiece of propaganda. Some of the children have ended up thousands of miles and several time zones away from Ukraine. According to Lvova-Belova's office, Ukrainian kids have been sent to live in institutions and with foster families. Russian reaction: Russia has characterized reports of forcible relocation as “absurd” and said it does its best to keep minors with their families. A government spokesperson also said Moscow rejects the arrest warrant for Putin, with the Kremlin adding that it is “outrageous and unacceptable." Lvova-Belova dismissed the warrant, saying it is “great” that the international community has noticed her work, according to Russian state news agency TASS. Ukraine applauds ICC: Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said it is a "historic decision that will lead to historic responsibility.” Zelensky’s chief of staff, Andriy Yermak said the warrants are "just the beginning." So far, Ukrainian officials have been able to return 300 children who had been forcibly deported to Russia. How the ICC works: Anyone accused of a crime in the jurisdiction of the court, which includes countries that are members of the ICC, can be tried. The court tries people, not countries, and focuses on those who hold the most responsibility: leaders and officials. While Ukraine is not a member of the court, it has previously accepted its jurisdiction. The ICC does not conduct trials in absentia, so Putin would either have to be handed over by Moscow or arrested outside of Russia. Other key headlines from the war: Other possible war crimes: The independent UN human rights commission released a report that concluded Russia committed abuses and atrocities that likely amount to war crimes and crimes against humanity. NATO: Turkey and Hungary’s ruling party have decided to start the process of ratifying Finland's accession to NATO, the countries' leaders said. Finland — along with Sweden — both announced their intention to join NATO in May, after Russia’s invasion of Ukraine caused a sudden shift in attitudes toward joining the bloc. Drone downing: The US is conducting an assessment of its drone operations in the Black Sea area, several officials told CNN. The Pentagon plans to compare the potential intelligence value of a particular route versus the risk of escalation with Russia, they said. Slovakia joins Poland in pledging fighter jets to Ukraine: They are the only two NATO countries that have granted Kyiv's repeated requests for aircraft in order to shore up its air defenses. Poland pledged four MiG-29 fighter jets and Slovakia will send 13. China's president to meet Putin next week: Putin and Chinese President Xi Jinping plan to discuss the war in Ukraine and will sign documents attesting to their closer ties when they meet in Moscow next week, a Putin adviser told Russian state media. US officials said they will be eyeing the meeting closely as China considers sending weapons to Russia. ##Catch Up## National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan, Secretary of Defense Lloyd J. Austin III, and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Gen. Mark A. Milley spoke with Ukrainian officials Friday, the White House said in a readout of the meeting.  “The Ukrainian officials provided an update on battlefield conditions and expressed appreciation for the continued provision of U.S. security assistance,” the White House said. “The U.S. officials reaffirmed the unwavering support of the United States for Ukraine as defends its sovereignty and territorial integrity.”   Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky joined at the end of the call, the White House said. The White House says it “remains to be seen” whether Russian President Vladimir Putin will ultimately face justice for alleged war crimes after the International Criminal Court issued a warrant for his arrest Friday, but the US will continue to help Ukraine document Moscow's misdeeds. “We’re going to stay committed to helping Ukraine as they document and analyze and preserve the kinds of evidence of the war crimes, the atrocities, the crimes against humanity that have occurred inside Ukraine at the hands of Russian forces,” National Security Council Coordinator for Strategic Communications John Kirby told CNN’s Jake Tapper on Friday. The United States does not recognize the ICC, but Kirby said the US is “not going to back off our belief that accountability for these war crimes has got to be had, however long that takes.” Kirby said the US wants to see “any perpetrators of war crimes held to account,” but he declined to say if US President Joe Biden would tell law enforcement to arrest Putin if he came to the US. He said it was "very, very unlikely" the Russian leader would travel to the United States. Asked if the US would ask other countries like Israel or India – who also do not recognize the ICC – to arrest the Russian leader, Kirby said it would “have to be sovereign decisions those leaders make.” Remember: Russia also does not recognize the ICC, and the court does not conduct trials in absentia, so Putin would either have to be turned over by Moscow or arrested in a foreign country for him to face charges from the court. Moscow's ties to Beijing: Tapper also asked Kirby if there was any intelligence indicating China has decided to give Russia weapons to help with the country’s assault on Ukraine. “We don't believe that they've taken it off the table still, but we also don't see any indication, any confirmation, that they're moving in that direction or that ... they have sent lethal weapons,” Kirby said. “We don't think it's in their interest. It shouldn't be in anybody's interest, quite frankly, to help Mr. Putin continue to slaughter innocent Ukrainians,” he added. Chinese leader Xi Jinping will fly to Moscow next week to meet with Putin in his first visit to Russia since Putin launched his devastating invasion of Ukraine more than a year ago. The visit will be seen as a powerful show of Beijing’s support for Moscow in Western capitals, where leaders have grown increasingly wary of the two nations’ deepening partnership as war rages in Europe. CNN's Nectar Gan and Anna Chernova contributed to this report. ##Putin Warrant## The United States supports "accountability for perpetrators of war crimes," National Security Council spokesperson Adrienne Watson said in a statement, hours after the International Criminal Court issued an arrest warrant for Russian President Vladimir Putin, “There is no doubt that Russia is committing war crimes and atrocities in Ukraine, and we have been clear that those responsible must be held accountable. The ICC Prosecutor is an independent actor and makes his own prosecutorial decisions based on the evidence before him. We support accountability for perpetrators of war crimes,” Watson said.  Watson's statement notably did not explicitly express support for the ICC's efforts to prosecute Putin for alleged war crimes. The ICC issued warrants for both Putin and Russian Commissioner for Children’s Rights Maria Lvova-Belova over an alleged scheme to forcibly deport thousands of Ukrainian children to Russia. While 123 countries are parties to the treaty that created the ICC, they don't include either the US or Russia. What the US has said about alleged crimes: The US government declared last Marchthat members of the Russian armed forces had committed war crimes in Ukraine. Last month in Germany, US Vice President Kamala Harris announced that the US government determined that Russia has committed crimes against humanity during its full-scale invasion of Ukraine. ##Putin Warrant## It is not outside the realm of possibility that Russian President Vladimir Putin could be tried by the International Criminal Court at some point, the ICC Chief Prosecutor Karim Khan said Friday. "Nobody should feel they have a free pass," he said. "I think those that think it’s impossible fail to understand history because the major Nazi war criminals, (former Yugoslav President Slobodan) Milošević, (former Bosnian Serb politician Radovan) Karadžić, (former Bosnian Serb military officer Ratko) Mladić, former (Liberian) President Charles Taylor, (former Prime Minister) Jean Kambanda from Rwanda, Hissène Habré (former president of Chad). All of them were mighty, powerful individuals, and yet they found themselves in courtrooms whose conduct was being adjudicated over by independent judges. And that also gives cause for hope that the law can, however difficult it may be, the law can be supreme," Khan said. The ICC on Friday issued arrest warrants for Putin and Russian official Maria Lvova-Belova relating to an alleged scheme to forcibly deport thousands of Ukrainian children to Russia. "I think the message must be that basic principles of humanity bind everybody. And nobody should feel they have a free pass. Nobody should feel they can act with abandon, and that definitely, nobody should feel that they can act and commit genocide or crimes against humanity or war crimes with impunity," Khan said. The prosecutor said it was important for the ICC to start these investigations as quickly as possible with a focus on the plight of victims. "The law must be about, and particularly criminal law, must be about victims and survivors," Khan added. Watch the interview with Karim Khan: ##Putin Warrant## After more than a year of international outrage at Russia’s invasion of Ukraine and shocking atrocities, there’s an arrest warrant out for Russian President Vladimir Putin. The International Criminal Court on Friday announced charges against Putin and Russian official Maria Lvova-Belova relating to an alleged scheme to forcibly deport thousands of Ukrainian children to Russia. Here’s a very broad look at how war crime prosecutions work: What is a war crime? The ICC has specific definitions for genocide, war crimes, crimes against humanity and the crime of aggression. Specifically, targeting civilian populations, violating the Geneva Conventions, targeting specific groups of people and more could be potential Russian war crimes. Who can be tried by the ICC? Anyone accused of a crime in the jurisdiction of the court, which includes countries that are members of the ICC, can be tried. The court tries people, not countries, and focuses on those who hold the most responsibility: leaders and officials. While Ukraine is not a member of the court, it has previously accepted its jurisdiction. Putin is therefore eligible for being indicted by the court for ordering war crimes in Ukraine. However, the ICC does not conduct trials in absentia, so he would either have to be handed over by Russia or arrested outside of Russia. That seems unlikely as long as Putin is in power. How does the ICC bring proceedings? Court proceedings can be brought in one of two ways: Either a national government or the UN Security Council can refer cases for investigation. Russia, a permanent member of the UN Security Council, has veto power over council actions. It was requests by 39 national governments, most of them European, that sparked the current investigation. How long do these investigations take? If justice in general moves slowly, international justice barely moves at all. Investigations at the ICC take many years. Only a handful of convictions have ever been won. Why would a Ukraine prosecution be different? The international outcry against Russia is unique, and that could give the court the ability to operate differently, according to Ryan Goodman, a law professor at New York University and co-editor-in-chief of Just Security, an online forum. “It’s hard to judge the ICC’s investigation based on past practice,” Goodman said in an email after the court initially launched its investigation back in 2022. “In the Ukraine situation, the prosecutor is buttressed by an extraordinary outpouring of support from dozens of countries, which I expect will be followed by an infusion of resources.” Read more about these investigations and read about the scheme involving Ukrainian children taken to Russia. ##Putin Warrant## The arrest warrant issued for Russian President Vladimir Putin is a "very important signal" for the world and the victims of the alleged scheme to forcibly deport thousands of Ukrainian children to Russia, the president of the International Criminal Court said Friday. A warrant was also issued for Russian Commissioner for Children’s Rights Maria Lvova-Belova. The arrest warrants are not "magic wands," Judge Piotr Hofmański said, speaking to CNN from The Hague in the Netherlands. "But we believe in the deterrence effect of the arrest warrants issued in our proceedings, and we believe that it's a very important signal for the world that we are doing our job, that the victims are not left alone, they are not forgotten, and we just are doing what's expected." Hofmanski compared the arrest warrant for Putin to a kind of sanction for the Russian leader. "There are 123 states — two-thirds of states of the world — in which he will not be safe," he said. Asked whether the ICC is asking signatory countries to arrest Putin if he travels to them, Hofmanski referred to ICC statute, saying, “All state parties have the legal obligation to cooperate fully with the court, which means that they’re obliged to execute arrest warrants issued by the court." He also said that these warrants are not "the end of the game," adding that the case "can expand and also cover other atrocities allegedly committed on the territory of Ukraine." Hofmanski said he has no knowledge of any other actions coming down the pike. Hofmanski said the contents of the arrest warrants were secret but that the ICC had agreed to publish the information about the existence of the warrants and the crimes allegedly committed by Putin and Lvova-Belova. Remember: The ICC does not conduct trials in absentia, so Putin would either have to be handed over by Russia or arrested outside of Russia. CNN's Jorge Engels contributed to this post. ##Putin Warrant## Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky praised the decision Friday by the International Criminal Court to issue warrants for the arrest of Russian President Vladimir Putin and Children’s Rights Commissioner Maria Lvova-Belova.  “Today we have a significant decision of international justice. In a case that has real prospects,” Zelensky said in his nightly address Friday. “This is a historic decision that will lead to historic responsibility.” The Ukrainian president said his own country’s investigations also suggested the Kremlin had direct involvement in the forced deportation of children into Russia. “In the criminal proceedings being investigated by our law enforcement officers, more than 16,000 cases of forced deportation of Ukrainian children by the occupier have already been recorded. But the real, full number of deportees may be much higher,” he said. “Such a criminal operation would have been impossible without the order of the highest leader of the terrorist state.” Zelensky went on to thank the ICC and Chief Prosecutor Karim Khan. He called the forced deportation of children “evil.” So far, Ukrainian officials have been able to return 300 children who had been forcibly deported to Russia. ##Putin Warrant## International Criminal Court chief prosecutor Karim Khan said there are reasonable grounds to believe Russian President Vladimir Putin and the country’s Commissioner for Children’s Rights Maria Lvova-Belova bear criminal responsibility for the forced deportation of hundreds of Ukrainian children.  At the time the Ukrainian children were reportedly taken out of their country, they were protected under the Fourth Geneva Convention, Khan said in a statement Friday.  According to the US and several European governments, Putin's administration has carried out a scheme to forcibly deport thousands of Ukrainian children to Russia, often to a network of dozens of camps, where the minors undergo political reeducation. “Many of these children, we allege, have since been given for adoption in the Russian Federation,” Khan also said, adding a change of the law in Russia through Presidential decrees issued by Putin had made it easier for the children to be adopted by Russian families.  “These acts, amongst others, demonstrate an intention to permanently remove these children from their own country,” Khan said. He called for accountability and for the children to be returned to their families in Ukraine, adding in the statement that "we cannot allow children to be treated as if they are the spoils of war.”  Khan said Ukraine was “a crime scene that encompasses a complex and broad range of alleged international crimes,” explaining that while this was a first step in prosecuting war crimes, he continues to pursue other lines of investigation.  ##Putin Warrant## CNN asked people on the streets of Kyiv their reactions to the International Criminal Court issuing arrest warrants for Russian President Vladimir Putin and Russian official Maria Lvova-Belova for an alleged scheme to deport Ukrainian children to Russia. Here's what they said: Tatiana Kostiuchenko, 25, massage therapist: "I think Russians will kill Putin before there is a chance for him to stand trial. He knows too much. This is the way they do stuff. The arrest warrant actually gives me a sense of calm. Because it’s like Ukrainians were alone saying all of these terrible things are happening, that Putin is a criminal. But now everyone will say it, know it. The fact that this is because of the children deportation is even better. It highlights the suffering of civilians, especially children. People think war is about two armies but it’s not — civilians are suffering, so many children."    Dmitro Yukhnoskyi, 29, games level designer: "I don’t know how much power they have to carry it out, but I am glad to see it. It won’t solve the problem, but it is a good start." Mykola Strizhak, 22, courier: "I am happy to see this news, but for now it is just words. But I hope it is followed by actions." Natalia Saloviova, 68, teacher: "I am happy to hear it, but I am not sure that it will be implemented because he will hide. He will hide. He will go abroad with the help of China maybe or Iran ... But I hope, I hope. I want to believe in this." To note: It remains unlikely that a trial at The Hague will go ahead. Russia is not a member of the ICC and the court does not conduct trials in absentia, so any Russian officials charged would either have to be handed over by Moscow or arrested outside of Russia. ##Putin Warrant## The European Union’s foreign policy chief is hailing the International Criminal Court’s decision to issue an arrest warrant for Russian President Vladimir Putin as “an important decision of international justice” and “just the start” in an international legal process to hold Putin accountable. “The gravity of the crimes and the statement of the ICC speak for themselves,” Josep Borrell, high representative of the EU for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, said Friday. “This is an important decision of international justice and for the people of Ukraine. We have always made clear at the European Union that those responsible for the illegal aggression against Ukraine must be brought to justice,” Borrell added. He said this arrest warrant is "just the start of the process of accountability" for holding Russia and other officials responsible for potential war crimes in Ukraine. ##Putin Warrant## The International Criminal Court, which operates independently, is located in The Hague, Netherlands, and was created by a treaty called the Rome Statute first brought before the United Nations. Most countries on Earth – 123 of them – are parties to the treaty, but there are some notable exceptions, including Russia, as well as the US, Ukraine and China. The ICC is meant to be a court of “last resort” and is not supposed to replace a country’s justice system. The court, which has 18 judges serving nine-year terms, tries four types of crimes: genocide, crimes against humanity, crimes of aggression and war crimes. Putin arrest warrant: The ICC on Friday issued an arrest warrant for Russian President Vladimir Putin and the Russian commissioner for children’s rights, Maria Lvova-Belova, for an alleged scheme to deport Ukrainian children to Russia. The court said there “are reasonable grounds to believe that Mr Putin bears individual criminal responsibility” for the alleged crimes, for having committed them directly alongside others, and for “his failure to exercise control properly over civilian and military subordinates who committed the acts.” Reports of Ukrainian children in Russia: The Ukrainian government says many missing children have been forcibly taken to Russia. The Russian government doesn’t deny taking Ukrainian children and has made their adoption by Russian families a centerpiece of propaganda. Some of the children have ended up thousands of miles and several time zones away from Ukraine. According to Lvova-Belova's office, Ukrainian kids have been sent to live in institutions and with foster families in 19 different Russian regions, including Novosibirsk, Omsk and Tyumen regions in Siberia and Murmansk in the Arctic. In April 2022, the office of Lvova-Belova said that around 600 children from Ukraine had been placed in orphanages in Kursk and Nizhny Novgorod before being sent to live with families in the Moscow region. As of mid-October, 800 children from Ukraine’s eastern Donbas area were living in the Moscow region, many with families, according to the Moscow regional governor. UN report on alleged war crimes: The UN on Thursday said in a report that war crimes perpetrated by Russia included “attacks on civilians and energy-related infrastructure, wilful killings, unlawful confinement, torture, rape and other sexual violence, as well as unlawful transfers and deportations of children.” So, will Putin actually be arrested?: Probably not. Anyone accused of a crime in the jurisdiction of the court, which includes countries that are members of the ICC, can be tried. The court tries people, not countries, and focuses on those who hold the most responsibility: leaders and officials. While Ukraine is not a member of the court, it has previously accepted its jurisdiction. The ICC does not conduct trials in absentia, so Putin would either have to be handed over by Russia or arrested outside of Russia. That seems unlikely. CNN's editorial research department contributed to this post. ##Putin Warrant## Hungary’s ruling party plans to approve Finland’s accession to NATO in a vote later this month, it said in a statement Friday. The parliamentary vote will take place March 27, and the group will vote unanimously in support of Finland's bid, the leader of the ruling Fidesz Party, Máté Kocsis, said in a statement.  Kocsis said the group would decide later on Sweden’s case for joining the military alliance. Turkey, which announced earlier Friday that it would approve Finland's membership, and Hungary have been the holdouts blocking both Nordic nations' accession. Western officials had generally considered getting Turkey's blessing the most significant hurdle to NATO expansion. More background: Finland announced its intention to join NATO in May, along with Sweden, after Russia’s invasion of Ukraine caused a sudden shift in attitudes toward joining the bloc. That announcement was welcomed by almost all of NATO’s leaders, but under NATO rules just one member state can veto a new applicant’s membership. Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan put a spoke in the wheel when he said he was not looking at both countries joining NATO “positively,” accusing them of housing Kurdish “terrorist organizations." Friday’s announcement clears the way for Finland’s accession, but Sweden’s application has been stalled by Ankara’s accusations, which Sweden denies. CNN's Yusuf Gezer, Amy Cassidy and Jack Guy contributed to this report. The Kremlin has called the International Criminal Court's decision to issue arrest warrants for Russian President Vladimir Putin and Russia’s children commissioner Maria Lvova-Belova “outrageous and unacceptable." "Russia, like a number of states, does not recognize the jurisdiction of this court and, accordingly, any decisions of this kind are null and void for the Russian Federation from the point of view of law,” Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov tweeted on Friday. Dmitry Medvedev, the former Russian president and Deputy Chair of the Security Council of Russia, also dismissed the warrant in a tweet. Russia's Ambassador to the United Nations Vassily Nebenzia also condemned the ICC as a "prejudiced, biased, and incompetent internal body."  Nebenzia called the war crimes court a puppet of the large Western countries and said since Russia is not a party to the ICC's Rome statutes, the court's decision to issue the arrest warrants was null and void. Located in The Hague, Netherlands, and created by a treaty called the Rome Statute first brought before the United Nations, the ICC operates independently. Most countries are parties to the treaty — but there are very large and notable exceptions, including Russia. This means for the trials to move ahead, Russian officials charged would either have to be handed over by Moscow or arrested outside of Russia. CNN's Richard Roth contributed reporting. ##Putin Warrant## Maria Lvova-Belova, Russia’s children commissioner, dismissed an arrest warrant issued against her and Russian President Vladimir Putin by the International Criminal Court (ICC). Lvova-Belova is the official at the center of the alleged scheme to forcibly deport thousands of Ukrainian children to Russia. In response, Lvova-Belova said it is “great” that the international community has noticed her work, according to Russian state news agency TASS on Friday. "It's great that the international community has appreciated the work to help the children of our country, that we do not leave them in the war zones, that we take them out, that we create good conditions for them, that we surround them with loving, caring people,” she said to reporters according to TASS. Key background: According to the US and several European governments, Putin's administration forcibly deported thousands of Ukrainian children to Russia, often to a network of dozens of camps, where the minors undergo political reeducation. “Lvova-Belova’s efforts specifically include the forced adoption of Ukrainian children into Russian families, the so-called ‘patriotic education’ of Ukrainian children, legislative changes to expedite the provision of Russian Federation citizenship to Ukrainian children, and the deliberate removal of Ukrainian children by Russia’s forces,” the US Treasury said in September. CNN's Hira Humayun contributed reporting to this post. ##Putin Warrant## Human Rights Watch called the International Criminal Court's decision to issue an arrest warrant for Russian President Vladimir Putin a “wakeup call to others committing abuses or covering them up” in a statement on Friday. “This is a big day for the many victims of crimes committed by Russian forces in Ukraine since 2014. With these arrest warrants, the ICC has made Putin a wanted man and taken its first step to end the impunity that has emboldened perpetrators in Russia’s war against Ukraine for far too long,” said Balkees Jarrah, associate international justice director at Human Rights Watch. The ICC issued the arrest warrants for Putin and Maria Lvova-Belova, the official at the center of the alleged scheme to forcibly deport thousands of Ukrainian children to Russia.  “The warrants send a clear message that giving orders to commit or tolerating serious crimes against civilians may lead to a prison cell in The Hague. The court’s warrants are a wakeup call to others committing abuses or covering them up that their day in court may be coming, regardless of their rank or position,” Jarrah said. The Russian government does not recognize the jurisdiction of the ICC in The Hague, Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov said Tuesday, according to state news agency TASS. Russia withdrew from the ICC treaty under a directive signed by Putin in 2016.  ##Putin Warrant## It's been a busy day of developments related to the war in Ukraine, with Russian President Vladimir Putin getting an arrest warrant from the International Criminal Court, additional details released about the upcoming meeting between the Russian leader and his Chinese counterpart, and an announcement of more fighter jets for Ukraine.  As nighttime approaches in Kyiv, catch up on what's happened so far: ICC issues arrest warrant for Putin: The International Criminal Court has issued arrest warrants for Putin and Maria Lvova-Belova, the Russian official at the center of the alleged scheme to forcibly deport thousands of Ukrainian children to Russia. Moscow said the court has “no meaning” for the country as Ukrainian officials praised the announcement. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky’s Chief of Staff, Andri Yermak, said the arrest warrant is “just the beginning.” Turkey, Finland and NATO: Turkey has decided to start the process of ratifying Finland's accession to NATO, Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan said. Finland — along with Sweden — both announced their intention to join NATO in May, dropping decades of neutrality after Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. While Finnish President Sauli Niinistö welcomed Turkey’s decision, he said its membership is “not complete” without Sweden. Putin and Xi