A US Air Force veteran who entered the Senate chambers in military gear during the January 6, 2021, attack on the US Capitol was sentenced on Friday to two years in prison. Larry Brock, 55, was found guilty on six charges, including the felony of obstruction of an official proceeding, during a bench trial in November 2022. "It's really pretty astounding coming from a former high-ranked military officer. It's astounding and atrocious," US District Judge John Bates said Friday as he explained his sentence. According to prosecutors, Brock walked around the Senate chamber for eight minutes during the Capitol attack, rifling through senators' desks while wearing a helmet, tactical vest and carrying plastic flex-cuffs he found in the Rotunda that day. Prosecutors also allege that Brock attempted to unlock a door that was used minutes earlier by then-Vice President Mike Pence. "Brock was a part of a larger mob that stopped the proceeding from taking place," prosecutor April Ayers-Perez said during sentencing. "They were continuing to stop the proceeding just by being there. Brock was on the Senate floor where they were supposed to be debating Arizona at that very moment." During sentencing, the government also said Brock used extreme rhetoric following the results of the 2020 election. The judge read some of Brock's social media posts during the hearing, including one that said: "I bought myself body armor and a helmet for a civil war that is coming." "I think it's fair to say his rhetoric is on the far end of how extreme it is," Bates said. The judge went on to emphasize the seriousness of the Capitol attack before imposing a sentence. "The conduct we are talking about, the events of January 6, were extremely serious. Extremely serious," he said. "It was a mob, engaged in a riot, and all of that has to be taken serious by the criminal justice system." Brock did not address the court at the advice of his defense attorney, Charles Burnham. "He'd love to address the court, but since we are planning on appealing, I've asked him to not address the court," Burnham said.