Michael Lerner, a veteran character actor who received an Oscar nomination for his performance in the 1991 film "Barton Fink" died at age 81. Lerner's death was confirmed by his nephew, actor Sam Lerner. Paul Cattermole, from the British pop group S Club 7, died at the age of 46, weeks after the pop group announced a major reunion tour. "We are truly devastated by the passing of our brother Paul," Cattermole's bandmates said in a Twitter post on Friday, April 7. The cause of death was not immediately known, but Dorset Police "confirmed that there were no suspicious circumstances," according to a statement from his family and the band. Japanese composer Ryuichi Sakamoto, who wrote the haunting score to "Merry Christmas, Mr. Lawrence" and won an Oscar for 1987's "The Last Emperor," died March 28 at the age of 71. He had been treated for cancer in recent years. Yang Bing-yi, who set up the Taiwanese restaurant chain Din Tai Fung, died at the age of 96, the company said in a statement on March 25. The restaurant expanded into a franchise, with outlets in the United States, the United Kingdom, Australia, the United Arab Emirates, South Korea and Singapore. Actor, comedian and producer Xavier López Rodríguez, better known as "Chabelo," died on March 25, his family announced on his official Twitter account. He was 88. "Chabelo" was on Mexican television for more than seven decades. He starred in some 30 films and worked on countless TV shows. Intel co-founder Gordon Moore, a pioneer in the semiconductor industry whose "Moore's Law" predicted a steady rise in computing power for decades, died March 24 at the age of 94, the company announced. Darcelle XV, the Guinness World Record holder for oldest drag queen performer, died March 23 at the age of 92. Willis Reed, who helped the New York Knicks win two NBA titles in the 1970s, died at the age of 80, the National Basketball Retired Players Association said on March 21. Lance Reddick, an actor whose captivating presence often landed him in roles that required intensity and gravitas, died at the age of 60 on March 17. According to his representative, Mia Hansen, Reddick passed away suddenly in the morning "from natural causes." One of his most well-known roles was playing Cedric Daniels on "The Wire." Bobby Caldwell, the soulful singer and songwriter behind R&B hits such as "What You Won't Do For Love" and "Open Your Eyes," died on March 14, according to his wife, Mary Caldwell. He was 71. Former US Rep. Patricia Schroeder, a longtime Democratic congresswoman from Colorado who championed women's rights, died at the age of 82 on March 13. The cause was complications from a stroke, said her daughter, Jamie Cornish. Joe Pepitone, a three-time All-Star who played for the New York Yankees between 1962 and 1969, died at the age of 82, according to an announcement from the team on March 13. Dick Fosbury, a legendary high jumper who won Olympic gold and revolutionized the event with his "Fosbury flop" technique, died of lymphoma on March 12, according to his publicist Ray Schulte. Fosbury was 76. South African rapper Costa Titch died suddenly, his family said in a March 12 Instagram post, hours after performing at a music festival. The musician, whose real name is Constantinos Tsobanoglou, was 28. Longtime Minnesota Vikings coach Bud Grant died March 11 at the age of 95, the team said in a statement. Grant coached the Vikings for 18 seasons, from 1967 through 1983 and again in 1985. The team went to four Super Bowls while he was coach. Masatoshi Ito, the Japanese billionaire who turned 7-Eleven convenience stores into a global empire, died at age 98 on March 10. Renowned architect Eugene Kohn died March 9 at the age of 92. Kohn was a co-founder of the architecture firm Kohn Pedersen Fox, whose best-known projects include New York City's One Vanderbilt and the Shanghai World Financial Center. Robert Blake, an Emmy-winning actor who starred in the crime series "Baretta," died on March 9, according to his daughter, Delinah Blake Hurwitz. He was 89. In 2001, Blake's second wife, Bonny Lee Bakley, was found murdered in the San Fernando Valley. In 2005, he was acquitted of murder charges relating to the case. He later lost a civil suit brought forth by Bakley's children. Peterson Zah, who led the Navajo Nation as chairman and its first president, died on March 7. He was 85. Guitarist Gary Rossington, the last surviving founding member of Southern rock band Lynyrd Skynyrd, died on March 5. He was 71. Tom Sizemore, an actor known for his roles in "Saving Private Ryan" and "Natural Born Killers," died on March 3. He was 61. The actor was hospitalized after suffering a brain aneurysm in mid-February. Rafael Viñoly, the Uruguayan-born architect who designed 20 Fenchurch Street in London — aka "The Walkie-Talkie" — died on March 2, his firm said. He was 78. Wayne Shorter, a Grammy-winning saxophonist and composer who helped shape the sound of contemporary jazz, died March 2, according to his publicist. He was 89. Jerry Richardson, the founder and former owner of the NFL's Carolina Panthers, died at the age of 86 on March 1, the team announced. Lorenzo "Lo" Jelks, Atlanta's first Black television news reporter, died at the age of 83, CNN affiliate WSB reported on February 25. Jelks joined WSB-TV in 1967 and stayed for nearly a decade, according to the Atlanta Press Club. Richard Belzer, the comedian and actor best known for playing Detective John Munch across a number of NBC crime dramas over more than two decades, died on February 19, according to his longtime manager. He was 78. Actress Stella Stevens, who appeared in a string of movies in the 1960s and '70s such as "The Nutty Professor" and "The Poseidon Adventure," died February 17, according to her son. She was 84. Tim McCarver, a longtime Major League Baseball broadcaster who won two World Series titles during his 21-year playing career, died at the age of 81, the National Baseball Hall of Fame announced on February 16. Raquel Welch, an actress who became an international sex symbol in the 1960s, died on February 15, according to a statement provided by her manager, Steve Sauer. She was 82. David Jude Jolicoeur, center, better known as Trugoy the Dove from the iconic rap trio De La Soul, died February 12 at the age of 54. A cause of death was not provided. Austin Majors, a former child actor best known for his role as Theo Sipowicz on "NYPD Blue," died on February 11, according to the Los Angeles Medical Examiner's office. He was 27. The cause of death was under investigation. Burt Bacharach, the acclaimed composer and songwriter behind dozens of mellow pop hits from the 1950s to the 1980s, including "Raindrops Keep Fallin' on My Head," "(They Long to Be) Close to You" and the theme from the movie "Arthur," died at the age of 94, a family member of Bacharach confirmed to CNN on February 9. World-famous fashion designer Paco Rabanne died at the age of 88 on February 3. The Spanish designer, born Francisco Rabaneda Cuervo, founded his eponymous fashion house in 1966 and courted both praise and controversy for his creations. Bobby Beathard, NFL executive and Pro Football Hall of Famer, died January 30 at the age of 86. Beathard helped to build teams that won four Super Bowls, including the 1972 Miami Dolphins team that finished undefeated. Hockey Hall of Famer Bobby Hull died January 30 at the age of 84, the Chicago Blackhawks announced. "The Golden Jet" was named one of the 100 Greatest NHL Players in 2017. Actress Annie Wersching died of cancer on January 29, her publicist, Craig Schneider, told CNN. She was 45. Wersching was best known for playing FBI agent Renee Walker in the series "24." She also provided the voice for Tess in "The Last of Us" video game. Lisa Loring, best known as the first actress to play Wednesday Addams in the original "The Addams Family" sitcom, died January 28 at the age of 64. Tom Verlaine, founding member of seminal New York punk band Television, died on January 28 "after a brief illness," according to a news release from Jesse Paris Smith, the daughter of Verlaine's former partner Patti Smith. He was 73. Former Detroit Lions and Los Angeles Chargers linebacker Jessie Lemonier died on January 26, according to a statement from the Lions. He was 25. The Lions did not provide details on the cause of death. Cindy Williams, the dynamic actress known best for playing the bubbly Shirley Feeney on the beloved sitcom "Laverne & Shirley," died January 25 at the age of 75. Lance Kerwin, an actor best known for his role in "James at 15" and the TV miniseries "Salem's Lot" as well as other notable series throughout the '70s, died at the age of 62, his talent agent John Boitano told CNN on January 25. Balkrishna Doshi, one of the Indian subcontinent's most celebrated architects, died January 24 at the age of 95. He was India's first — and to date, only — winner of the Pritzker Prize, the profession's equivalent to the Nobel Prize. Mexican comedian Leopoldo Roberto Garcia Pelaez Benitez, who performed as "Polo Polo," died on January 23, his family announced. He was 78. Benitez was known for his adult-themed jokes and Spanish language puns, which were showcased in dozens of albums the comedian recorded throughout the 2000s. Sal Bando, a four-time Major League Baseball All-Star, died January 20 after a long battle with cancer. He was 78. From 1972 to 1974, Bando won three consecutive World Series titles as captain of the Oakland Athletics. David Crosby, a folk and rock music pioneer and one of the founding members of The Byrds as well as Crosby, Stills, Nash & Young, died at the age of 81, his family announced on January 19. Anton Walkes, a defender for Major League Soccer team Charlotte FC, died at the age of 25, the team announced in a statement on January 19. Walkes died from injuries suffered in a boating accident, the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission said in a statement. He previously played for Tottenham Hotspur, Portsmouth and Atlanta United. The world's oldest known person, French nun Sister André, died at the age of 118 on January 17. Sister André, born as Lucile Randon on February 11, 1904, lived near the French city of Toulon. She dedicated most of her life to religious service, according to a statement released by Guinness in April 2022. Italian screen legend Gina Lollobrigida died at the age of 95, news agency ANSA reported on January 16, citing members of her family. Together with Sophia Loren, Lollobrigida came to symbolize Italian actresses in the 1950s and 1960s. Veteran actor Al Brown, who became famous for his role in the hit TV show "The Wire," died on January 13. He was 83. Brown made his name playing police commander Stanislaus "Stan" Valchek in the show about the Baltimore drugs trade. Robbie Knievel, who followed in the daredevil footsteps of his father Evel Knievel, died on January 13.