Pantelleria, Italy: Italy's newest national park opened in 2016 on Pantelleria, kick-starting this quiet island's transformation into a year-round adventure destination. Vancouver, Canada: Vancouver just got its first Michelin Guide (the first Canadian city after Toronto to do so). Tuamotu Archipelago, French Polynesia: This remote archipelago is a go-to destination for "world-class surfing, scuba diving, and snorkeling," says TIME. Berat, Albania: Berat was a place of refuge for the country's Jews during World War II and, unusually, the country's Jewish population actually increased during the conflict. Nagoya, Japan: The city of Nagoya is close to the newly opened Ghibli Park, Japan's blockbuster theme park attraction. Musanze, Rwanda: Musanze is the gateway to Volcanoes National Park, which has just announced expansion plans and is home to rare mountain gorillas. Jeju Island, South Korea: Long loved by domestic travelers, this resort island is now attracting international attention, too. Chyulu Hills, Kenya: This wildlife oasis is "a short hop via bush plane from Wilson Airport in Nairobi," says TIME. Rio Grande, Puerto Rico: Rio Grande offers Americans the chance to visit the rainforest without leaving the country. Bozeman, Montana: The little city of Bozeman is "turning into a Rocky Mountain hub," says TIME, following a rush of pandemic relocation. Kangaroo Island, Australia: Kangaroo Island was devastated by the bushfires of 2019-2020, but is slowly recovering. Timisoara, Romania: Timisoara is a 2023 European Capital of Culture and will be celebrating with an array of concerts, exhibits and festivals. Phuket, Thailand: Phuket is Thailand's largest island and a long-established tourist center. Washington D.C.: The US capital wins praise for its stylish new hotels and booming arts and culture scene Freetown, Sierra Leone: "All odds are on Sierra Leone to explode on the adventure travel scene," says TIME. Guadalajara, Mexico: In November Guadalajara will become the first Latin American destination to host the Gay Games worldwide sporting event. Ollantaytambo, Peru: Not just a stopover on the way to Machu Picchu, this village in the Sacred Valley is a worthy destination in its own right. Torres del Paine National Park, Chile: As well as the stunning scenery of Patagonia, this is the place to go on a puma safari. Dijon, France: No other gastronomic hot spot cuts the mustard quite like the city of Dijon. Aqaba, Jordan: Jordan's only coastal city, the landscape here features in the blockbuster hit "Dune," part two of which is out this year.