On her first date with Augustin Pasquet, Michelle Young found herself weaving through the streets of Paris on the back of his moped. As they headed down the Champs-Élysées, Michelle snapped a photograph with her digital camera. In the distance, she captured the striking Arc de Triomphe. In the forefront, Augustin lifted his fingers in the peace symbol. In the moment, Michelle felt exuberantly happy. She didn't know where the evening would go, but she knew she'd treasure that feeling. "With that kind of camera, you can take quick photos in rapid succession, so I ended up making this stop action movie of the whole evening, from start to finish," Michelle tells CNN Travel today. "A lot of that footage was just taken along the Seine, with the lights of Paris. And so even if he was unintentionally on a date, it was still a magical introduction to France." Augustin tells CNN Travel he was only "unintentionally on a date" because, as a Frenchman, he didn't really understand the concept. "I didn't know the word 'date'," he says today, laughing. "A date is a very Anglo-Saxon idea. For me, I'd met someone, there was a good connection and I was meeting her again in Paris." A meeting in Bolivia Michelle and Augustin's story had begun six months previously, thousands of miles away from the streets of Paris, in Bolivia, in South America. It was 2009. Michelle was 26 and at a crossroads. She'd abandoned an unsatisfying job to play cello in a Brooklyn-based indie rock band and wasn't sure where life was heading. "I grew up in a pretty classic Taiwanese American household. Excellence in everything you do is expected and I had fulfilled my cultural destiny already by then by going to Harvard and going to the Juilliard School for Music," Michelle says. "But I had never done anything that was not planned out or pre-ordained for me. When I quit the only industry I had ever worked in, I was pretty lost." Amid that uncertainty, travel became Michelle's escape. She went backpacking around Southeast Asia. Then, in summer 2009, she embarked on a trip through South America with her bandmates. "I love everything about backpacking. There's an openness that comes with traveling with no plan, with only your essentials, spending as little money as possible, and in a lot of cases, traveling alone. The people you meet have a similar openness," says Michelle. "I wasn't looking for love, but I was looking for adventure." Michelle and her friends traveled through Peru first, and then onto La Paz, Bolivia. From there, they explored the foothills of the Amazon and admired the Bolivian salt flats before arriving in the city of Santa Cruz de la Sierra. Traveling through Bolivia was an amazing experience, but plans went a little haywire when one of the group had her passport stolen. An impending move on to Brazil was put on hold as Michelle's friend attempted to resolve the situation. At this impasse, some of the group flew back to the United States, some headed to Argentina. As for Michelle, she booked a couple of beds in a Santa Cruz de la Sierra hostel for herself and her passport-less friend, happy to wait out the uncertainty. While her friend sorted out her passport issues, Michelle killed time in the hostel. She'd picked it -- one of just two options -- because her Lonely Planet guidebook said there was a "tropical outdoor courtyard with hammocks and two toucans." Sure enough, it felt like a green haven, and as an extra plus, it was filled with friendly backpackers. Among them was a 24-year-old French traveler by the name of Augustin Pasquet. That summer, Augustin was also making his way through South America with a gang of close friends. They'd started in Argentina, then traveled to Chile and onto Bolivia. "We had spent like three days in the desert, in SUVs covered in dust and everything and suddenly we were in this beautiful hostel with hammocks, luxurious, lush plants. And then next thing, this charming, charming woman walks by," recalls Augustin. When he first spotted Michelle, Augustin was sitting with his friends in a communal area of the hostel. "I thought she was cute, she walked by and she clearly wanted to engage," Augustin recalls. "I'm less the engagey-type, so I asked my friend to ask her something, to start the conversation." Augustin's friend obliged, and -- somewhat out of nowhere -- turned to Michelle and asked in English, "Do you know where the market is?" Michelle was a little surprised. "I remember noting that it was really kind of random if that's the one thing he really wanted to ask me," she recalls. But coincidentally she had been to a great market that day, so she obligingly launched into a long explanation of what it was like, and how to get there. "I realize his question was just a way to start conversation," says Michelle today. "I guess in a way it did break the ice because I did my usual rambling with far too much detail and color for any answer, displaying a kind of classic American friendliness which some French people find fun." Soon Michelle had grabbed a seat at the table and was swapping travel anecdotes with the French boys. They were easy, fun company. "One guy did catch my eye," says Michelle. "But he was quieter than the rest." This was Augustin, happy to sit back and let his friends do most of the talking, even if he'd been the one to encourage the connection with Michelle in the first place. The conversation continued into the evening. Michelle, Augustin and Augustin's friends -- later joined by Michelle's friend after she'd resolved her passport troubles -- went out for dinner and then drinks at a nearby bar and restaurant. Over the course of the evening, Michelle and Augustin realized they were both carrying the same Nikon DSLR camera. "We both loved our camera and taking photos in general," says Augustin. Over drinks, they compared photographs and techniques. "It was fun," says Augustin. "We bonded about photography and found that we shared a similar sense of humor," says Michelle. They were both intrigued by one another. But neither acted on their feelings. "It was honestly a very PG experience," says Michelle. The next day, Michelle and her friend prepared to leave Bolivia. Michelle's friends' passport issues were resolved, and they could finally head on to Brazil. Michelle and Augustin said goodbye and exchanged Facebook details, just in case there was a chance to reunite at another point on their respective South American adventures. Plus, Michelle had decided to go to graduate school back in New York, and with that came an opportunity to study abroad in Paris. Now she had a potential friend in France. A Paris reunion Michelle and Augustin finished their South American travels without crossing paths again. Back home in the US, Michelle says she "thought about Augustin from time to time." She showed her best friend in New York some photographs of the night out in Santa Cruz de la Sierra. Her friend pointed out one of the other guys, suggesting he was the one Michelle should have gone for. "But I thought, nah, Augustin is the one if it somehow all works out," recalls Michelle. "I thought he was really cute. I thought we shared a sense of humor -- and then the camera thing. So there seemed to be a lot of interests that were aligned. And I liked his energy." Back in Paris, Augustin also found himself describing that evening -- and Michelle -- to a friend. He especially liked how Michelle had been journaling that night, almost in real time, jotting down funny moments in a notebook to remember for later. Augustin's friend listened to all of this, and raised an eyebrow. "He pointed out that I was really into her -- he put it in words for me," says Augustin. He remembers denying it, but it was true Michelle was often on his mind. Six months passed. Michelle started her graduate school program and began planning her semester in Paris. She decided to send Augustin a Facebook message asking if he had any tips on the best neighborhood to find an apartment. But Augustin didn't respond right away, and in the meantime, Michelle sorted her accommodation without his help. Augustin did eventually reply with a long, detailed explanation of Paris' arrondissements, or neighborhoods, and where might be best for Michelle to base herself. When he realized the information had come too late, he encouraged Michelle to get in touch again once she arrived. When she touched down in Paris, Michelle dropped Augustin a message. She had no expectations, but he invited her to meet for drinks, and suggested they could then head to a dinner party hosted by one of his friends. "I was definitely really excited to see him again," recalls Michelle. "And then also really excited to be shown Paris by a Parisian. I think that's sort of everyone's dream when they go study abroad." "I was very excited to see her again too," says Augustin. He suggested the two of them meet by a church in the 17th arrondissement. The church was, coincidentally, the place where Augustin's grandparents had got married. "It was convenient, beautiful and easy -- and not too far from where she was and where we wanted to go afterwards. It was very nice. And we reconnected right away, same energy, we spent the whole time laughing as well," says Augustin. "I remember thinking: 'There could be something here." Michelle and Augustin had drinks that night at Parisian institution Chez Georges. "It captures an idea of Paris," says Augustin. "It's a bar and the downstairs has a cellar with arched stones, you just buy red wine or whatever, it's loud and there's music -- it feels very timeless Parisian in a way." From there, the two went to Augustin's friend's dinner party. That's when Michelle ended up on the back of Augustin's moped, speeding through the streets of Paris. "I did sense that it was pretty special to be invited to a friend's dinner on a first date. So that didn't go unnoticed," says Michelle. Augustin's friends welcomed Michelle into the fray right away. They drank wine, and grazed on oozy raclette cheese into the early hours of the morning. Michelle didn't speak French at the time, but she enjoyed soaking up the atmosphere. "I guess nowadays we have the 'Emily in Paris' comparison," she says, joking about her bad French. For most of the evening, she struggled to work out which of Augustin's friends were dating. "I kind of just assumed that if two people were sitting next to each other, and often they were talking quite closely, or were much more tactile than American culture or British culture, I was like, 'Oh, they must be dating. Those two must be together, you know?''" The fact that they were more often actually dating someone at the other end of the table was "mind-blowing," says Michelle. It was one of the first cultural differences she observed between US and French culture. "I've always appreciated cultural differences. My family's from Taiwan, I