Renovation project: US couple Doug and Leah Johnson purchased an apartment in the town of Vasanello for 9,000 euros (4,000 euros less than the asking price) in 2019 and have spent the last four years or so renovating it. Neglected property: "The idea of something that was built in the 14th or 15th century was just really intriguing," says Doug Johnson, adding that he has a penchant for "fixing up old buildings." Sold unseen: Doug says his wife took a lot of persuading to agree to the purchase, while friends thought they were "crazy." Cut price home: They were able to view the property in person for the first time when they traveled to Italy to finalize the sale in June 2019. Dream fulfilled: "Actually being there was kind of mind-blowing," says Doug. "We'd looked at the pictures so many times and just dreamed and wondered what it was going to be like." Spreading out: Doug and Leah Johnson went on to purchase two other units in the same building, which happens to be connected to a palace. Ancient town: The Johnsons are bowled over by Vasanello and say they've been "welcomed with open arms." Nearby inspiration: The pair took inspiration from Vasanello's Orsini Castle, which dates back to 1285, when designing the interior. Extensive work: They estimate that they spent between 75,000 euros ($77,654) and 105,000 euros ($106,707) on the restoration work. Full makeover: "I love restoring old buildings, and my wife and I are art teachers, so everything is an art project," says Doug. Complete transformation: Now that they've fulfilled their Italian dream, the couple are hoping to spend more time in their newly renovated property. Historic elements: Doug and Leah say they were determined to keep the "ancient feel of the original property." Special name: They've named their home "Piccolo Tartufo," which translates to little truffle, in a reference to the area's reputation as a prime truffle hunting spot. Viewing window: After purchasing the wine cave below their second property, they had a viewing window, which is visible from the floor of the second unit, cut over it. Future plans: Once Doug retires, they plan to spend at least three months in Italy each year, so that they make the most of their Italian home continue to explore the local area.