Our live coverage of Russia's war in Ukraine has moved here. On Tuesday, a Russian Su-27 fighter forced down a US MQ-9 drone over the Black Sea. In comments the following day, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov warned that relations between Russia and the US had hit their “lowest point.” But the lowest point since when? With the US and Russia routinely scraping bottom when it comes to bilateral relations, perhaps we need new superlatives to describe how bad things are. A bit of historical perspective serves as a reminder that confrontation between the two nuclear-armed nations can be much sharper: The war in Syria. In February 2018, a US contingent on the ground in eastern Syria clashed with a force advancing on their base that included members of the Russian private military company Wagner. US troops called in air strikes and artillery on the opposing force, inflicting dozens of casualties on the Wagner mercenaries and their Syrian allies. The Cold War. Though the Cold War saw the Cuban missile crisis and several nuclear close calls, it’s less remembered today that the Cold War escalated into a hot one between US and Soviet forces at several points during the decades-long confrontation. The Korean War. During the Korean War, US fighter pilots engaged in aerial combat against Soviet MiGs. Those dogfights, however, remained shrouded in secrecy, with records quickly classified and participants sworn to secrecy. One of the reasons? Fears that making such incidents public might increase tensions between the two superpowers. The same was also true for manned surveillance flights that the US carried out around — and sometimes over — Soviet territory. The downing of the U-2 spy plane piloted by Francis Gary Powers in 1960 is the most famous case, creating major embarrassment for the United States and stirring worldwide media attention. But most of those programs remained classified, and out of the news, for decades. Read more: ##Drone Intercept## The Russians have reached the MQ-9 crash site in the Black Sea, according to two US officials, as the Kremlin promises to attempt to recover the US surveillance drone. Russia’s Navy has several ships in the Black Sea, including ships based in Crimean ports, which would have placed them in an advantageous position to attempt to recover the US MQ-9 Reaper drone after its encounter with Russian fighter jets on Tuesday. The drone came down in international waters approximately 70 miles southwest of Crimea, one of the officials said. It is unclear if Russia was able to recover any of the wreckage from the drone when they arrived at the crash site. White House National Security Council spokesperson John Kirby would not confirm that Russians were at the site. He reiterated however that the US took steps to make it "impossible" for Russia to acquire any useful information from the drone's remnants. "Whatever's left of that that's floating will probably be flight control surfaces, that kind of thing," he told CNN's Wolf Blitzer. "Probably nothing of real intrinsic value to them in terms of re-engineering or anything like that. We're not overly concerned about whatever they might get their hands on." He added: "It's our property and they have no business recovering anything." The Russian Security Council Secretary said Wednesday that Russia will try to obtain the drone wreckage to study it. “I don’t know if we will be able to get it or not, but we need to do it... And we will definitely look into it,” said Nikolai Patrushev on on Russian state TV Rossiya 1. The drone landed in a part of the Black Sea that’s likely almost a mile deep, Gen. Mark A. Milley said, making any recovery effort extremely difficult. The US also has no Navy ships in the Black Sea, compounding the challenges in any US recovery attempt. ##Drone Intercept## Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov accused the United States on Wednesday of "ignoring" the airspace restrictions that Russia imposed in the coastal regions of the Black Sea since the start of the war with Ukraine.  "They completely ignore the fact that after the start of a special military operation, our military declared the relevant areas of the Black Sea, adjacent in certain places, as areas with a limited status for the use of any aircraft," Lavrov said in an interview with Russian state TV Rossiya-1. Lavrov also blamed the US for "constantly looking for provocations aimed at increasing tensions." "Any incidents that provoke a clash between the two great nuclear powers always pose a great risk," he said. ##Drone Intercept## The main focus of a telephone conversation between Russian Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu and his US counterpart, Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin, on Wednesday was on the "causes and consequences" of the downing of a US drone over the Black Sea, the Russian defense ministry said. Shoigu told Austin the incident was "caused by the US actions of non-compliance with the flight restriction zone declared by the Russian Federation" established in connection with the special military operation in the region, according to a readout. "It is noted that the US flights of strategic unmanned aerial vehicles off the coast of Crimea are provocative in nature, which creates preconditions for the escalation of the situation in the Black Sea area," the readout said. Shoigu said that Russia "will continue to respond to all provocations in a proportionate manner," according to the readout of the call. Some context: The US said that while flying in international airspace over the Black Sea, a Russian Su-27 jet dumped fuel on a US MQ-9 Reaper drone several times. One of the Russian jets then hit the drone, damaging it and forcing US officials to crash it into the water. ##Drone Intercept## United States officials say they likely will not be able to retrieve a drone forced down by Russian jets in the Black Sea. The incident is part of a pattern of “aggressive, risky and unsafe" behavior from Russia, Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin said Wednesday. US Secretary of State Antony Blinken said the incident is under investigation and that the US is in "close coordination" with allies. Here's everything to know to get up to speed: What to know about the drone intercept: While flying in international airspace over the Black Sea, a Russian Su-27 jet dumped fuel on a US MQ-9 Reaper drone several times, US military and defense officials said. One of the Russian jets then hit the drone, damaging it and forcing US officials to crash it into the water, Austin said. Recovery efforts: The US Air Force primarily uses the MQ-9 drone to collect intelligence, according to the service’s website. The aircraft will likely not be recovered by the US, but sensitive software on the drone was remotely erased before it crashed to prevent Russia from collecting secret information, according to two US officials. Joint Chiefs Chairman Gen. Mark Milley said the drone fell into very deep water and the Navy does not have any vessels in the area, making recovery efforts difficult. He said the US will work with allies in the area to try to get it out. Russian officials have said they will also try to get to the wreckage in order to study it. Russian response: The Kremlin said relations between Russia and the US are at their “lowest point” and in a “deplorable state,” following the drone's downing. Moscow pushed back, denying its fighter jets came "into contact" with the US drone. Milley said that US officials have "absolute evidence" that the two aircraft came into contact, but said they are not sure if it was intentional. Milley, however, did reiterate that "the aggressive behavior was intentional." Russian Ambassador to the US Anatoly Antonov said he denied all accusations against Russia after being summoned to the State Department. Here are the other key headlines from the war: Battle in Bakhmut: In a city still seeing intense fighting, Austin applauded the "valor" and the "persistence" of the Ukrainian soldiers fighting in Bakhmut. Less than 3,000 people — including 33 children — remain in the embattled city, according to the Donetsk regional military administration. A soldier from Ukraine's 93rd Mechanized Brigade destroyed a Russian jet over Bakhmut Wednesday, according to a commander. Why this matters: President Volodymyr Zelensky has warned that a Russian capture of Bakhmut would give them an “open road” to capturing other key Ukrainian cities in the east. Milley said that any decision on whether Ukrainian forces should remain in the eastern city or be repositioned would be made by Zelensky. Russian movement: Russia is making “small tactical advances” around the Ukrainian city of Bakhmut, but “at great cost,” Milley said. Meantime, Wagner chief Yevgeny Prigozhin said his fighters have captured a small settlement north of Bakhmut earlier on Wednesday. Prigozhin also acknowledged that a small number of Afghan fighters are working with the private military company. ##Catch Up## Russian shelling killed at least two people and injured five others in Ukraine's Dnipropetrovsk region on Wednesday, Serhii Lysak, the head of the Dnipropetrovsk regional military administration, said in a Telegram post.  Two women, ages 62 and 57, were killed in the city of Marhanets, he said. According to preliminary information, a man and three women were hospitalized, and another injured woman will be treated on an outpatient basis, he said.  More than a dozen multistory buildings and several private houses in Marhanets were damaged in the shelling, the regional administration said in a separate post.  "One of them caught fire — rescuers have already extinguished the fire. A shop, a cultural center and a dormitory were damaged," the regional administration said.  Less than 3,000 people — including 33 children — remain in the embattled city of Bakhmut, according to Pavlo Kyrylenko, head of the Donetsk regional military administration. "The evacuation continues, and not only in Bakhmut, we are working along the entire frontline," Kyrylenko said on national television Wednesday.  Evacuation is mandatory in the region, but some people still refuse to leave, he said.  "There are still people who definitely do not want to leave, and it is a very difficult task to persuade them. More than 1,100,000 people out of 1,670,000 have left Donetsk region since February 24, 2022," he added.  A soldier from Ukraine's 93rd Mechanized Brigade destroyed a Russian Su-25 jet over Bakhmut, according to a commander. The announcement comes after the head of Ukraine's President’s Office, Andriy Yermak, also said forces from the 93rd Mechanized Brigade had shot down a Russian military plane near Bakhmut.  Commander Oleksandr Syrskyi of the Land Forces of the Armed Forces of Ukraine said the Russian military "continues to unsuccessfully try to surround the city and advance." "The soldiers of the 93rd Brigade, along with other defenders, are holding back the enemy's fierce pressure there. Due to their work, enemy tanks, infantry fighting vehicles, MLRS and ammunition depots are blown up," Syrskyi said in a Telegram post.  "The occupiers are also putting pressure on the Kupyansk and Lyman directions," he said, adding that soldiers from the 92nd Brigade have managed to destroy Russian radar systems and command centers in those directions.  CNN has been unable to confirm the Ukrainian claims. The Russian Ambassador to the United States, Anatoly Antonov, said Wednesday he had denied all accusations against Russia after being summoned to the US State Department in connection with the downing of a US Reaper drone on Tuesday. Antonov said he was invited to the State Department to talk with Assistant Secretary of State for European Affairs Karen Donfried. Antonov was summoned to "convey our strong objections," department spokesman Ned Price said on Tuesday. "For 15 minutes we spoke directly about this issue and for the other 15 minutes we talked about Russian concerns regarding various aspects of US activity," Antonov said in an interview with Russian state TV Rossiya-1. The conversation was “very calm” and “respectful” and “I categorically denied all accusations against the Russian armed forces," he added. "No one hit the table with a shoe, threatening something," he said. ##Drone Intercept## While the US is working through recovery operations for a downed MQ-9 Reaper drone intercepted by Russian aircraft on Tuesday, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Gen. Mark Milley said Wednesday that it is “no longer” of intelligence value.  "(I)t probably broke up, probably not a lot to recover, frankly," Milley said. "As far as the loss of anything of sensitive intelligence etc., as normal we would take — and we did take — mitigating measures. So we are quite confident that whatever was of value is no longer of value." Milley said the US knows where the drone landed in the Black Sea, and that it is likely four to five thousand feet under the surface, which would make recovery operations "very difficult" for anyone. He said the US does not have any naval surface vessels in the Black Sea at the moment, but that "we'll work up options." "(W)e don't have any ships there, but we do have a lot of allies and friends in the area," he added. "We’ll work through recovery operations, that's US property, and we'll leave it at that at this point." ##Drone Intercept## A small number of Afghan fighters are working with the private military company, Wagner, which is fighting in Ukraine, according to the group's chief, Yevgeny Prigozhin. "The Afghan fighters of the Wagner PMC are working with us in small numbers," Prigozhin said in a statement published by his holding company, Concord. He also said Wagner now also has an artillery unit. CNN is unable to independently verify those claims.  Some background: Earlier in March, Prigozhin said there were currently no Serbian nationals among the Wagner fighters in Ukraine, after "the last one" left a few months earlier.  Prigozhin was responding to accusations by Serbia's President Aleksandar Vucic that Wagner has tried to recruit Serbs to fight in Ukraine.  Russia is making “small tactical advances” around the Ukrainian city of Bakhmut, but “at great cost,” Chairman of the Joint Chiefs Gen. Mark Milley said Wednesday. Right now there is intense fighting in and around the eastern city, Milley said, but in other places on the front line, there have been "significant exchanges of artillery, but no significant maneuver gains by either side.”  Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has warned that a Russian capture of Bakhmut would give them an “open road” to capturing other key Ukrainian cities in the east.  More than a year after the invasion of Ukraine started, Milley said Russian soldiers have been thrown into the war without “any sort of synchronized coordination and direction.” “Russia continues to pay severely in terms of lives and military equipment for its continued war of choice,” he said. US Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin said Wednesday that he applauds the "valor" and the "persistence" of the Ukrainian soldiers fighting in Bakhmut. "They have done amazing ... I think the Russians have been working to take Bakhmut for some seven months or so now and they haven't been very successful – and that's because of the diligence, the commitment, the focus of the Ukrainian soldiers," Austin said. He added that any decision on whether Ukrainian forces should remain in the eastern city or be repositioned would be made by President Volodymyr Zelensky. "The point that I would make is if he does make a call to reposition at some point in time, it doesn't mean that the war is lost. It may mean, and probably will mean, that he is positioning himself to maintain advantage," Austin added.  US Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin was asked Wednesday about comments by potential presidential candidates that support for Ukraine should not be a priority and if he was concerned that election rhetoric could undermine American support for Ukraine going forward. Austin said that he's seen "bipartisan support" for providing security assistance to Ukraine throughout the conflict "up to this point." "I expect that we will continue to see that going forward. We've heard some senior leaders on both sides of the fence say that, and so I expect that will continue," Austin said. "Ukraine matters. It matters not to just Ukraine or to the United States, it matters to the world. This is about the rules-based international order," he added. He noted that countries from around the world "continue to come back" to meetings of the Ukraine Defense Contact Group. "They continue to come back and they continue to work hard to ensure that Ukraine gets everything that it needs to be successful. And that will remain our focus," he said.   Joint Chiefs Chairman Gen. Mark Milley said the United States does not know if the Russian fighter jet intentionally hit the American drone over the Black Sea. This is something officials are looking into, he said at a news conference Wednesday, adding that he has a call scheduled with his Russian counterpart to discuss that point, among other things. "We know that the intercept was intentional, we know that the aggressive behavior was intentional, we also know it was very unprofessional and very unsafe," Milley said. As for the physical contact between the jet and drone "that remains to be seen." However, Milley said the US has "absolute evidence of the contact and the intercept." US officials have said two Russian jets dumped fuel on the US MQ-9 drone Tuesday in international airspace. Then, one jet "struck our MQ-9 aircraft, resulting in a crash," Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin said. Russia has denied that it had direct contact with the drone. "There's no question that that part of its intentional," Milley said, referring to the jets dumping fuel on the drone. "The actual physical contact of the aircraft, that I'm not so sure." ##Drone Intercept## Russia is “running out of capability” after invading Ukraine more than a year ago, Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin said Wednesday following a meeting of the Ukraine Defense Contact Group.  “Russia has had to depend on Iran and North Korea and has had to use equipment dating back to World War II,” Austin said. “So Russia is running out of capability and running out of friends.”  He said Russian President Vladimir Putin has “now had a year's worth of proof that the United States and the Contact Group will support Ukraine's right to defend itself for the long haul.” “But Putin still hopes that he can wear down Ukraine and wait us out,” he added. “So we can't let up, and we won't.” Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin said Wednesday he had spoken on the phone with his Russian counterpart Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu following an altercation that forced a US drone to crash in the Black Sea. He did not disclose any details about the conversation. Austin said two Russian jets dumped fuel on the US MQ-9 drone that was "conducting routine operations" Tuesday in international airspace. Then, one jet "struck our MQ-9 aircraft, resulting in a crash." Russia has denied that it had direct contact with the drone. Russian aircraft engaged in "dangerous and reckless and unprofessional behavior in the international airspace over the Black Sea," the secretary said. The incident is part of a pattern of “aggressive, risky and unsafe" behavior from Russia, Austin added. ##Drone Intercept## Ukrainian forces have shot down a Russian military plane near the embattled eastern city of Bakhmut, said Andriy Yermak, head of the Ukrainian presidential office. Yermak posted a video on Telegram Wednesday that appears to show the downing of the plane. CNN is unable to independently verify Yermak's claim. Ukraine's national news agency Ukrinform is also reporting the incident, quoting Yermak.  In the video, a white parachute is seen, suggesting the pilot was able to eject.  The Ukrainian military has shot down at least 304 Russian aircraft since the start of the war on February 24, 2022, to March 15, 2023, according to Ukraine's Foreign Ministry. CNN is unable to independently verify this number.  US Secretary of State Antony Blinken said Wednesday that Russia’s downing of a US drone over the Black Sea “is being investigated.” Speaking at a news conference in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, Blinken declined to speak to the motive or intent behind the incident, saying he would let the investigation proceed. “What I can say very clearly is this was a reckless and unsafe action,” Blinken said. Blinken said the US is “in close coordination” with allies and partners on the matter. ##Drone Intercept## Wagner chief Yevgeny Prigozhin said his fighters have captured a small settlement north of Bakhmut earlier on Wednesday. In an audio message published on his media Telegram channel, Prigozhin claims Wagner fighters have captured the settlement of Zaliznianske, located about 15 kilometers (9.3 miles) north of the embattled city. "In the absence of ammunition, amid a projectile famine, in the hardest battles, the assault troops are widening the encirclement of Bakhmut. Zaliznianske settlement was taken by Wagner PMC assault troops this morning," he said. CNN is unable to independently verify his claims. In his message, Prigozhin again highlights what he calls "a projectile famine," alluding to tensions with Russia's Defense Ministry. Prigozhin has frequently complained that his fighters are not receiving enough ammunition while doing the bulk of the fighting around Bakhmut. The top US general is expected to speak with his Russian counterpart on Wednesday, a US defense official tells CNN, one day after a Russian jet collided with a US drone over the Black Sea in international airspace. Joint Chiefs Chair Gen. Mark Milley is expected to speak with the Chief of Russian General Staff, Gen. Valery Gerasimov, by telephone on Wednesday, after the US and Russia put out different accounts of the incident over the Black Sea. The two military leaders have not spoken since late December.     More on this: It is unclear whether Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin will also speak with his Russian counterpart, Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu. Such conversations often happen in tandem, with the top generals holding a conversation after the defense secretary and defense minister have spoken. ##Drone Intercept## An American MQ-9 Reaper drone was forced down by Russian fighter jets over the Black Sea Tuesday — the first known interaction between US and Russian forces of this nature since the war in Ukraine began just over a year ago. This type of US drone is remotely piloted and primarily used for collecting intelligence. The move by Russia to use a fighter jet to take it down was "combative," Ret. US Air Force Col. Cedric Leighton said in an analysis. "They have this very sophisticated jet they're using to go after a really, what amounts to, a surveillance drone and they will do anything they can not only to irritate us but to destroy our capabilities," he said. Here's a closer look at the US drone: The United States erased sensitive software on the MQ-9 Reaper drone remotely before it crashed into the Black Sea to prevent Russia from collecting secret information, according to two US officials. The steps to wipe the software were taken after the encounter between the drone and two Russian Su-27 fighter jets. The Russian jets dumped jet fuel in front of the US surveillance drone early Tuesday morning, after which one of the Russian jets collided with the drone, damaging its propellor and forcing the US to bring it down in the Black Sea.   On Wednesday, Nikolai Patrushev, the secretary of the Russian Security Council, said Russia will try to retrieve wreckage of the drone. Patrushev was formerly the chief of the Russian Federal Security Service (FSB) – the successor to the Soviet Union’s KGB. “I don’t know if we will be able to get it or not, but we need to do it... And we will definitely look into it,” Patrushev said on Russian state TV Rossiya 1.  The US does not have any Navy ships in the Black Sea, according to a Navy official, which would make any attempted US recovery effort extremely difficult and time-consuming. On Tuesday, National Security Council coordinator for strategic communications John Kirby said the US has taken steps to protect the “equities” associated with the drone. “Without getting into too much detail, what I can say is that we've taken steps to protect our equities with respect to that particular drone — that particular aircraft. And it’s the United States' property. We obviously don't want to see anybody getting their hands on it beyond us,” Kirby said. The mid-air encounter occurred approximately 45 miles southwest of the Crimean peninsula, one US official said. The drone landed approximately 70 miles southwest of Crimea after gliding away from the occupied territory, the official added.  ##Drone Intercept## Ukraine's Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba said on Wednesday that the apparent downing of a US drone over the Black Sea by a Russian fighter jet was “inevitable.”  “As long as Russia controls Crimea, these kinds of incidents will be inevitable and the Black Sea will not be a safe place,” he said in an interview with the BBC, adding that the “only way to prevent such incidents is actually to kick Russia out of Crimea.”  When asked whether he believed the incident might make the US more cautious in its approach to the conflict, Kuleba told the BBC he did not believe that this was the case.  "The mood is not to escalate but nor is the mood to lean under the pressure — the physical or rhetorical pressure — of Russia,” he said.   ##Drone Intercept## The Russian downing of a US drone over the Black Sea on Tuesday has prompted a diplomatic spat and a race to recover some highly classified technology. The White House slammed Moscow’s actions as “unsafe, unprofessional and reckless” while Russia’s defense ministry denied its aircraft came into contact with the drone. Russian and US aircraft have operated over the Black Sea during Moscow’s war in Ukraine, but this is the first incident of its kind since the conflict began. Here’s what you need to know. What happened to the US drone? The drone – a US-made MQ-9 Reaper – and two Russian Su-27 aircraft were flying over international waters over the Black Sea on Tuesday when one of the Russian jets intentionally flew in front of and dumped fuel on the unmanned aerial vehicle several times, a statement from US European Command said. The aircraft then hit the drone propeller, prompting the drone’s remote operators to bring it down in international waters. Pentagon spokesman Brig. Gen. Patrick Ryder added Tuesday that the Russian aircraft flew “in the vicinity” of the drone for 30 to 40 minutes before colliding just after 7 a.m. Central European Time. The Russians have given a different version of events. A Russian fighter aircraft “did not use airborne weapons or come into contact” with the drone over the Black Sea, the Russian defense ministry said in a statement Tuesday. The incident marks the first known time Russian and US military aircraft have come into direct physical contact since Russia launched its invasion of Ukraine just over a year ago and is likely to increase tensions between the two nations. More pressingly, a race is underway to avoid the drone from falling into the wrong hands. As of Tuesday evening, neither country had recovered the drone, US officials said. What is the MQ-9 Reaper drone? The US Air Force primarily uses the Reaper for collecting intel, according to the service’s website, which touts the “intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance” abilities of the drone. But when armed, the drone can also be used against “high-value, fleeting, and time-sensitive” executive targets, given its weapons systems and its ability to surveil an area for a long period of time. In other words, the Reaper is both capable of surveilling and striking an enemy. These dual uses have earned the Reaper a nickname in military circles: the “hunter-killer.” Read more here. ##Drone Intercept## British Defence Secretary Ben Wallace urged Russia on Wednesday to “respect international airspace” after the US said its drone was downed over the Black Sea by a Russian fighter jet.  “The key here is that all parties respect international air space and we urge the Russians to do so," he told reporters.    Wallace, who is currently in Japan for a defense event, added that the US considered the act to be “very unprofessional.”  ##Drone Intercept## The Russian Security Council Secretary and the former chief of Russia’s Federal Security Service (FSB) Nikolai Patrushev said on Wednesday that Russia will try to get the wreckage of an American MQ-9 drone that fell into the Black Sea in order to study it.  “I don’t know if we will be able to get it or not, but we need to do it ... And we will definitely look into it,” said Patrushev said on Russian state TV Rossiya 1.  “As for the drone, the Americans keep saying that they are not participating in hostilities. This is yet another confirmation that they are directly involved in these events, in the war,” he added.   Patrushev said Russia already counters such actions.  “We must defend our independence and sovereignty," he said.  Some more context: The US has not recovered the drone that was forced down by a Russian fighter jet over the Black Sea Tuesday, according to National Security Council communications coordinator John Kirby. He warned that he was "not sure we are going to be able to recover it." "We did the best we could to minimize any intelligence value that might come from somebody else getting their hands on that drone," he added. The Kremlin said relations between Russia and the US are at their “lowest point” and in a “deplorable state,” following the drone's downing. Moscow pushed back, denying its fighter jets came "into contact" with the US drone. ##Drone Intercept## The American MQ-9 Reaper drone that was downed by a Russian fighter jet over the Black Sea on Tuesday has yet to be recovered, John Kirby, National Security Council coordinator for strategic communications said today on CNN This Morning.  "I'm not sure that we're going to be able to recover it," Kirby told CNN's Don Lemon. "Where it fell into the Black Sea, very, very deep water. We're still assessing whether there can be any recovery effort mounted. There may not be." Kirby added that the US has taken efforts to "minimize any intelligence value" getting into the wrong hands. Retired US Air Force Col. Cedric Leighton explains the capabilities of the MQ-9 Reaper drone and explains how the US can prevent Russia from gathering intel from the drone. Watch here. ##Drone Intercept## Russian military-linked hackers used a critical flaw in Microsoft email software to target — and in some cases infiltrate — the networks of European military, energy and transportation organizations in an apparent spying campaign that went undetected for months as the war raged in Ukraine, Microsoft told its customers in a report obtained by CNN.  The news shows how, despite the heightened defensive posture of Western governments and tech firms during the war, Russian hacking can slip under the radar and come to light, if ever, months after the fact.   As Russian military advances in Ukraine have faltered, the Kremlin’s hacking teams have scoured the networks of Western logistics and transport firms supporting Ukraine’s defenses for intelligence that might translate to a battlefield or geopolitical advantage, according to cybersecurity experts and US officials. A tip from Ukrainian officials led Microsoft to investigate the cyber activity and discover that the Russian hackers had been exploiting the previously unknown software flaw between April and December of last year, according to Microsoft.  Microsoft publicly disclosed the vulnerability on Tuesday, urging customers to update their software. Privately, Microsoft told customers that “fewer than 15” organizations had been targeted or breached by the Russian operatives.  Bleeping Computer, a tech news outlet, first reported on the Microsoft advisory to customers.  Continue reading here. The US has not recovered the drone that was forced down by a Russian fighter jet over the Black Sea Tuesday, according to National Security Council communications coordinator John Kirby. He warned that he was "not sure we are going to be able to recover i