For about four hours of arguments, a federal judge in Texas asked questions that suggested he is seriously considering undoing the US Food and Drug Administration’s approval of a medication abortion drug and the agency’s moves to relax the rules around its use. But the judge, US District Judge Matthew Kacsmaryk, an appointee of former President Donald Trump, also indicated he was thinking through scenarios in which he could keep the drug’s 2000 approval intact while blocking other FDA rules. Anti-abortion doctors and medical associations are seeking a preliminary injunction that would require the FDA to withdraw or suspend its approval of the drug, mifepristone, and that would block the agency’s more recent regulatory changes making the pills more accessible. Here are some of the big takeaways: Judge focused on FDA's process for approving abortion pills: Kacsmaryk showed a particular interest in the arguments by the abortion opponents that the FDA approved mifepristone in an unlawful way. He zeroed in on a claim by the abortion foes that the studies that the FDA looked at when deciding whether to approve the drug did not match the conditions under which the agency allows it to be administered. Erik Baptist, attorney for the challengers, alleged that those studies all featured patients who received ultrasounds before being treated with the drug, which is not among the FDA’s requirements for prescribing abortion pills. Baptist accused the FDA of “examining oranges and declaring apples to be safe.” Justice Department attorney Daniel Schwei defended the FDA’s approach, arguing that the relevant law gives the FDA discretion to determine what studies are adequate for approving a drug’s safety. He also said the challengers’ claims were factually flawed because the FDA also was looking at studies where the patients did not receive an ultrasound. Impact of the reversal of Roe v. Wade: The medication abortion lawsuit targets actions the FDA took around medication abortion pills before last summer’s Supreme Court reversal of Roe v. Wade’s abortion rights protections. While that decision, known as Dobbs v. Jackson Women’s Health Organization, didn’t play a major role in Wednesday’s arguments, the judge referenced it and suggested it could have an impact on his thinking about the case. He asked Erin Hawley, an attorney for the challengers, whether Dobbs was an “intervening event” that has “changed the landscape” around the relationship between state and federal government concerning abortion policy. Hawley agreed, calling it a “sea change.” What could happen next: Kacsmaryk wrapped up the hearing without any explicit timeline for when he’ll rule, telling the parties he would issue an order and opinion “as soon as possible.” An appeal would first go to a panel of three judges of the 5th US Circuit Court of Appeals, arguably the most conservative appeals court in the country. The panel’s decision could then be appealed either to the full 5th Circuit or the US Supreme Court. Kacsmaryk seemed to be grappling with the practical impact of a ruling in favor of the plaintiffs. He asked plaintiffs’ attorneys, the DOJ lawyers and the attorneys for the drug company Danco whether it would be possible for him to block some but not all of the FDA actions the challengers were targeting. More takeaways. The medication abortion lawsuit targets actions the US Food and Drug Administration took around medication abortion pills before last summer's Supreme Court reversal of Roe v. Wade's abortion rights protections. While that decision, known as Dobbs v. Jackson Women's Health Organization, didn't play a major role in Wednesday's arguments, the judge referenced it multiple times and suggested it could have an impact on his think about the case. He brought up Dobbs early on in the hearing, and raised it specifically in connection with a friend of the court brief filed by 22 GOP-led states supporting the challengers. The judge noted that the red states' brief argued that the FDA's actions were infringing on their state laws concerning abortion pills. He asked Erin Hawley, an attorney for the challengers, whether Dobbs was an "intervening event" that has "changed the landscape" around the relationship between state and federal government concerning abortion policy. Hawley agreed, calling it a "sea change." If US District Judge Matthew Kacsmaryk has any sore feelings over the blow up around his efforts to keep Wednesday's hearing plans quiet, he didn't show them at the proceedings. When questioning both sides of the case, Kacsmaryk had a restrained, straight-forward tone. The challengers got some follow up questions, but never did Kacsmaryk aggressively push back on their arguments. The substance of his questions for the US Food and Drug Administration's defenders was more skeptical, but he kept with the measured approach in his questioning, and avoided any pushiness when grilling the government and one of mifepristone's manufacturers about the approval process. Occasionally he threw in a light-hearted remark or an attempt at a joke. Some of the legal arguments Wednesday focused on whether the statute of limitations had run out for the challengers and whether they qualified for an exemption based on the FDA's actions. "This case is somewhat of a nightmarish law school question on tolling," Kascmaryk quipped. At the end of the hearing, he thanked the parties, as well as those who filed dozens of friend of the courts briefs, for their "superb" briefing. He also acknowledged the logistical hurdles the lawyers at the hearing went through to get to his courthouse in Amarillo, which is a several hours' drive from Texas' biggest cities. Left unmentioned by the judge was the fact that he tried to delay the announcement of the hearing until the evening before, which would have made it difficult for members of the public and the media to attend Wednesday's proceedings. While scheduling Wednesday's hearing at a private status conference last week, he had told the attorneys he was planning on waiting until posting the scheduling order until Tuesday and asked them to keep the plan quiet as well. At the status conference, according to a transcript CNN obtained Tuesday, he cited death threats and harassment the staff at his court had faced. That hostility was also not mentioned at Wednesday's hearing. Meanwhile, outside of the courthouse, only a handful of demonstrators showed up. Some of them were dressed as clowns, an apparent reference to a comment made by Kacsmaryk at the status conference about the risk of a "circus-like" atmosphere. The courtroom was open to the public, but only with limited seating: 19 seats for reporters and 19 for members of the publics. By 6 a.m. ET Wednesday there were already lines outside the courtroom to claim those seats. Those attendees were not allowed to bring electronics in with them, and if they left the courthouse, they were not allowed back in. Kacsmaryk warned at the beginning of the hearing that anyone who disrupted the proceedings would be immediately removed without warning. But there were no such disruptions. US District Judge Matthew Kacsmaryk on Wednesday appeared hung up on the process the US Food and Drug Administration used to approve the medication abortion drug. Kacsmaryk was particularly focused on a claim by the abortion foes that the studies that the FDA looked at when deciding whether to approve the drug did not match the conditions under which the agency allows it to be administered. Erik Baptist, attorney for the challengers, alleged that those studies all featured patients who received ultrasounds before being prescribed the drug, which is not a requirement for obtaining abortion pills, and Baptist accused the FDA of "examining oranges and declaring apples to be safe." Kacsmaryk returned to the that "apples to oranges" argument several times throughout the hearing. Justice Department attorney Daniel Schwei argued that the relevant statute gives the FDA discretion to determine what studies are adequate for approving a drug's safety and effectiveness — an argument Kacsmaryk pressed him on. Schwei also said that the challengers' example citing ultrasounds was factually flawed, because some of the studies the FDA looked at did not involve the patients receiving an ultrasound. Kacsmaryk was similarly focused on a claim by the plaintiffs that the FDA violated the law in the special, accelerated process that it used to approve mifepristone in 2000. At one point the judge revealed in the hearing that he had downloaded a list of the other drugs the FDA had approved through the accelerated process. He ticked through the list of drugs, which were made up mostly of treatments for HIV and cancer, and he asked the Justice Department for its "best argument" for why mifepristone fit into the list. Over the course of about four hours of arguments, a federal judge in Texas asked questions that suggested he is seriously considering undoing the US Food and Drug Administration's approval of medication abortion drugs and the agency’s moves to relax the rules around its use.  But the judge, US District Judge Matthew Kacsmaryk, also indicated he was thinking through scenarios in which he could keep the drug's approval intact while blocking the FDA's more recent moves to make abortion pills easier to obtain. Wednesday's hearing concerned a request by the challengers for a preliminary injunction that would require the FDA to withdraw or suspend its approval of the drug, mifepristone, as well as the more agency’s recent regulatory changes regarding abortion pills. Kacsmaryk's line of questioning for defenders of the FDA's approval of mifepristone hinted that he sympathized with the legal arguments from challengers who argued the approval was unlawful.  Kacsmaryk also had many questions for the lawyers for the plaintiffs, anti-abortion doctors and medical associations, and showed some skepticism towards granting an order that was as aggressive as what they were seeking. A federal judge in Amarillo, Texas, concluded a high-stakes hearing without announcing whether he plans to grant a preliminary injunction that would suspend or withdraw approval of a medication abortion drug that's been available for more than 20 years. US District Judge Matthew Kacsmaryk said he would issue an order and an opinion "as soon as possible" in the case challenging the US Food and Drug Administration's approval of the drug.  A preliminary injunction would temporarily cut off access to the most common method of abortion in the United States, and the dispute marks the most significant legal battle concerning abortion since the Supreme Court ended nationwide abortion protections with its overturning of Roe v. Wade last summer. The drug mifepristone was approved by the FDA in 2000, and the plaintiffs — a coalition of anti-abortion medical associations and doctors — are also challenging more recent moves by the FDA that made abortion pills easier to obtain. Kacsmaryk's decision came after hearing arguments from both the government defending the medication as well as challengers of the drug in a federal courtroom on Wednesday.  A federal judge in Texas is considering a lawsuit seeking to block the use of medication abortion nationwide. The lawsuit targets the agency’s 2000 approval of mifepristone, one of the two drugs used for medication abortion. Mifepristone blocks the hormone progesterone, which is needed for a pregnancy to continue. The drug is approved to end a pregnancy through 10 weeks' gestation, which is “70 days or less since the first day of the last menstrual period,” according to the US Food and Drug Administration. In a medication abortion, a second drug, misoprostol, is taken within the next 24 to 48 hours. Misoprostol causes the uterus to contract, creating cramping and bleeding. Approved for use in other conditions, such as preventing stomach ulcers, the drug has been available at pharmacies for decades. Together, the two drugs are commonly known as the “abortion pill,” which is now used in more than half of the abortions in the United States, according to the Guttmacher Institute, a research group that supports abortion rights. “While many women obtain medication abortion from a clinic or their OB-GYN, others obtain the pills on their own to self-induce or self-manage their abortion,” said Dr. Daniel Grossman, a professor of obstetrics, gynecology and reproductive sciences at the University of California, San Francisco. “Some people do this because they cannot access a clinic — particularly in states with legal restrictions on abortion — or because they have a preference for self-care,” Grossman said. “A growing body of research indicates that self-managed abortion is safe and effective.” What happens during a medication abortion? To find out, CNN spoke with Grossman, who is also the director of Advancing New Standards in Reproductive Health, a research group that evaluates the pros and cons of reproductive health policies and publishes studies on how abortion affects a woman’s health. Read the conversation here. The federal judge overseeing the high-profile challenge to the FDA’s two-decade-old approval of certain drugs used to terminate a pregnancy is a deeply conservative jurist with a proclivity for siding with plaintiffs looking to roll back reproductive and LGBTQ rights or block key Biden administration policies. US District Judge Matthew Kacsmaryk, an appointee of former President Donald Trump, was confirmed by a 52-46 Senate vote in 2019. The FDA case, the biggest abortion-related case since the Supreme Court overturned Roe v. Wade last year, has drawn considerable criticism from abortion rights advocates. But Kacsmaryk himself has also drawn scrutiny for the way he’s handled the matter, with critics taking issue with some highly unusual steps he took to delay making the public aware that a hearing was scheduled in the case for Wednesday. Since Kacsmaryk took the bench in 2019, he’s helped make Texas a legal graveyard for policies of President Joe Biden’s administration, largely due to the fact that Texas’ rules for how federal cases are assigned in the state have allowed conservatives to file there strategically, almost guaranteeing their complaints will be before sympathetic judges. Kacsmaryk is assigned every case filed in his division. In recent comments to The Washington Post, Kacsmaryk’s sister, Jennifer Griffith, detailed her brother’s long history of being anti-abortion and how she believes fate brought the abortion case before him. “I feel like he was made for this,” Griffith said. “He is exactly where he needs to be.” The group that brought the medication abortion lawsuit, the Alliance for Hippocratic Medicine, incorporated in Amarillo a few months before they filed the suit, according to documents from the Texas secretary of state’s office. Kacsmaryk is the only federal district judge seated in the Amarillo division of the US District of Northern Texas. Read more about Kacsmaryk here. US District Judge Matthew Kacsmaryk asked the challengers to the US Food and Drug Administration's approval of a medication abortion drug to walk him through their arguments for why and how he could reverse that approval from more than 20 years ago. The federal judge asked the plaintiffs – a group of anti-abortion medical associations and doctors – how they overcome certain procedural thresholds in the case and about the legal approach he should take in analyzing their arguments.  While the judge did not appear skeptical of the plaintiffs’ arguments, one of the sharpest questions from the judge was whether the challengers could point to another analogous case when a court intervened in the way he is being asked to intervene here.  Erik Baptist – one of the lawyers for the plaintiffs – conceded they could not point to a similar case and blamed FDA delays in addressing citizen petitions and challenges. Later in the hearing, however, he pointed to other times the FDA had suspended or withdrawn drugs based on court cases, suggesting the court has authority in such matters. Other key moments: Baptist also took issue with how the FDA used certain protocols during studies conducted before approving the drug – like requiring ultrasounds – but did not issue those same requirements when approving the drug for the public. He described that as a reckless act, calling it an "apples and oranges" approach.   For remedies, the judge asked the plaintiffs whether they suggest he order a suspension or withdrawal of the medication. Baptist said the better approach would be withdrawal but that suspension would be an alternative action.  Whatever relief the judge may grant, Baptist argued, must be swift and complete, saying the harms of these drugs "know no bounds" and "time cannot be lost."  The defenders of the FDA's moves have not argued yet, so it's not clear if they will face more skepticism or if Kacsmaryk will strike a similar tone with them as he did with the challengers. Baptist and Erin Morrow Hawley argued for the challengers. Both are lawyers at the Alliance Defending Freedom.   While Baptist argued the drug is causing irreparable harm for the plaintiffs and putting the public at risk, Hawley focused on standing, saying the plaintiffs have had to divert resources to care for women who've dealt with complications from the drug, which she described as "dangerous."  The challengers have reserved 30 minutes for rebuttal after the defenders of the drug go next. The hearing is still ongoing. Electronics and video are not allowed in the courtroom, but CNN's reporters are inside and will continue to provide updates as the hearing unfolds. Medication abortion has become the most common method for abortion, accounting for more than half of all US abortions in 2020, according to the Guttmacher Institute. The growing popularity of medication abortion is largely because of its accessibility, said Abigail Aiken, associate professor at the University of Texas at Austin who leads a research group on medication abortion. “It reduces the cost, it reduces barriers where people may not want to go to a clinic,” she said. It is also a safer option than both procedural abortion or childbirth. The rate of major complications — like hemorrhages or infections — for medication abortions is about one-third of a percent, according to a 2015 study conducted by Upadhyay. That means out of more than 11,000 cases, 35 experienced any major complications. The likelihood of serious complications via procedural abortion — performed second-trimester or later — is slightly higher than medication abortion at 0.41%, according to the same study. And childbirth by far comes with the highest risk, at 1.3%. If access to mifepristone is cut off, abortion clinics and telehealth organizations could pivot to misoprostol-only abortions, Aiken told CNN. Although misoprostol-only abortions are used around the world, they are less effective, associated with a higher risk of serious complications and often more painful than the mifepristone and misoprostol combination, she said. In the latest study of self-managed misoprostol-only medication abortions in the US, Johnson found misoprostol-only abortions to be a safe alternative, though less safe than using both pills. The study, published in February, analyzed data from online telehealth medication abortion provider Aid Access from 2020. Nearly 90% of 568 users reported completed abortions and 2% experienced serious complications using only misoprostol. Mifepristone and misoprostol together is still considered the gold standard, Aiken told CNN. People who used the two-pill combination were less likely to experience serious complications than those who went with the misoprostol-only regimen. “It’s clear people can use these medications, mifepristone and misoprostol, at home even without the help of a medical professional very safely,” said Aiken. Because misoprostol is used to treat multiple ailments including stomach ulcers, it’s readily stocked in pharmacies and unlikely to be taken off the market anytime soon, Johnson told CNN. Read more here. As a federal judge in Texas hears a lawsuit on a medication abortion case, the Women’s March is holding a protest outside the courthouse in Amarillo. Protesters were slowly arriving this morning, as well as a handful of police officers in bikes. A small group of protesters hold signs that say, “Defend Medication Abortion” and “Not your Uterus not your decision.”  “Abortion is health care. I’m a registered nurse and I believe very strongly in everyone’s right to access medication abortion as they see fit,” Lindsay London, a protester from Amarillo, said. Some of the protesters are dressed in costume. One man is wearing a plush kangaroo judge outfit, and two other people are dressed in clown costumes. “I’m here to show what a circus all this is,” said Jami Lyons, wearing a red wig. “His court is a joke,” said Felix Robertson, donning a clown wig. Lyons and Robertson said they decided to dress up like clowns because of what US District Judge Matthew Kacsmaryk said during a status conference call last week. During the call, Kacsmaryk asked that the attorneys "not further advertise or tweet any of the details of this hearing so that all parties can be heard and we don't have any unnecessary circus-like atmosphere of what should be more of an appellate-style proceeding." “We’ll bring the circus then,” Robertson said. “We’re reminding him that he created the circus,” Lyons said. “We're here to show him that he doesn't have support in Amarillo, that we don't agree with his decision, and we're going to continue to be outspoken against this joke circus of a courtroom.”  Lyons and Robertson said that they expect a small number of protesters to show up today because of the secrecy around the announcement of the hearing, which didn’t give people much time to plan to attend.  As a hearing on the case challenging the federal government’s approval of a medication abortion drug takes place today, here's a look at the latest polling on Americans' views on the topic. Only about one-quarter (26%) of Americans favor laws making it illegal to use or receive through the mail FDA-approved drugs for a medical abortion, while 72% oppose such laws, according to a PRRI report analyzing polling conducted over the past year. While 50% of White evangelical Protestants favor criminalizing the abortion pill, less than half of any other racial, gender, educational or age group wanted to see it banned. But there's substantial public confusion about medication abortion, KFF polling finds. Only 31% of US adults, including 46% of women ages 18-49, have heard of the medication abortion pill mifepristone; even fewer say they've heard news about the FDA policy allowing certified pharmacies to dispense medication abortion pills to patients who have a prescription. And 45% of all Americans say they're not sure whether or not medication abortion is legal in their state. More broadly, Americans' support for legal abortion has remained solid in the wake of the Supreme Court decision overturning Roe v. Wade, PRRI finds. Across the year 2022, 64% of Americans said abortion should be legal in most or all cases, and 63% opposed overturning Roe v. Wade. Just 9% wanted abortion to be illegal in all cases. Most Democrats (86%) and independents (68%) said abortion should be legal in most or all cases, as did 36% of Republicans. A majority of residents in 43 states and the District of Columbia favored legal abortion in most or all cases. Support fell below the 50% mark in just seven states: South Dakota, Utah, Arkansas, Oklahoma, Idaho, Mississippi and Tennessee. In PRRI's December poll, three in 10 Americans said they were not sure whether or not abortion was currently legal in their state. Other recent surveys find little support for new abortion restrictions. In a January Gallup poll, 46% of Americans said they were dissatisfied with the nation's abortion policies and would prefer to see less strict abortion laws. That's a record high in the firm's 23-year trend, up from 30% in January 2022 and just 17% in 2021. In an NBC News poll also taken this January, 71% of US adults said that Congress should not pass legislation that provides additional restrictions on abortions. And in a KFF poll conducted last November and December, 65% of Americans said it was important for Congress to pass a law making abortion legal in all states, with 42% saying such a law should be a top priority. In a Februrary poll from Quinnipiac University, 64% of Americans said abortion should be legal in most or all cases, but just 5% picked abortion as the most urgent issue facing the country, ranking it behind topics including inflation (29%), immigration (13%) and gun violence (11%). Data analyzed by CNN shows mifepristone — the first drug in the medication abortion process — is even safer than some common, low-risk prescription drugs, including penicillin and Viagra. There were five deaths associated with mifepristone use for every 1 million people in the US who have used the drug since its approval in 2000, according to the US Food and Drug Administration as of last summer. That’s a death rate of 0.0005%. Comparatively, the risk of death by penicillin — a common antibiotic used to treat bacterial infections like pneumonia — is four times greater than it is for mifepristone, according to a study on life-threatening allergic reactions. Risk of death by taking Viagra — used to treat erectile dysfunction — is nearly 10 times greater, according to a study cited in the amicus brief filed by the FDA. “[Mifepristone] has been used for over 20 years by over five million people with the capacity to become pregnant,” said Ushma Upadhyay, an associate professor in the department of obstetrics, gynecology and reproductive science at the University of California, San Francisco. “Its safety is very well established.” Read more here. The federal judge involved in a major medication abortion case told lawyers last week that he did not want to publicize plans to hold a hearing in the case because of a “barrage” of death threats and other harassment that has been directed towards his courthouse, according to a transcript obtained by CNN of a private status conference. US District Judge Matthew Kacsmaryk, on a teleconference with the attorneys on Friday, said: “This is not a gag order but just a request for courtesy given the death threats and harassing phone calls and voicemails that this division has received.” The judge did not say where the threats came from. “We want a fluid hearing with all parties being heard,” the judge added. “I think less advertisement of this hearing is better.” At Wednesday’s hearing, Kacsmaryk will be considering a request for a preliminary injunction sought by the plaintiffs, anti-abortion doctors and medical associations that are asking him to block the Food and Drug Administration’s approval of a drug used in medication abortion. During the Friday teleconference, he said that he would put a public order scheduling the hearing on the public docket on Tuesday, the day before the Wednesday morning hearing in Amarillo, Texas. “To minimize some of the unnecessary death threats and voicemails and harassment that this division has received from the start of the case, we’re going to post that later in the day,” Kacsmaryk said, according to the transcript. “So it may even be after business hours, but that will be publicly filed.” “Other elements of this case have brought a barrage of death threats and protesters and the rest. I don’t want that to disrupt your presentation to the court,” the judge told the attorneys on the call. More background: Kacsmaryk’s effort to delay the hearing plans from becoming public was first reported by The Washington Post on Saturday, and prompted a public outcry from media outlets and legal experts who said that the effort undermined the principles of judicial transparency. He ultimately posted the scheduling order for the hearing to the court’s docket on Monday afternoon, as well as a docket entry for the Friday call. During the call, Kacsmaryk assured the attorneys that the normal courthouse security protocols will be in place for Wednesday’s hearing, but he asked that the attorneys “not further advertise or Tweet any of the details of this hearing so that all parties can be heard and we don’t have any unnecessary circus-like atmosphere of what should be more of an appellate-style proceeding.” Democratic governors from 14 states wrote a letter Tuesday asking several national pharmacies whether they plan to continue dispensing the abortion pill mifepristone.  The letter, addressed to the leaders of CVS, Rite-Aid, Walmart, Costco, Kroger, Safeway and Health Mart, said that states were aware the pharmacies were reviewing their policies around the drug. The governors said they "look forward to receiving your plans for dispensing Mifepristone in states where such care is legal, as well as any other actions you plan to take to safeguard access to reproductive healthcare.” “As companies that dispense critical, life-saving medications, we urge that your decisions continue to be guided by well-established science and medical evidence and a commitment to the health and well-being of patients — not politics or litigation threats,” the letter says. “The impact to people’s health and lives is too great to do otherwise.”  The inquiry comes as a federal judge considers a lawsuit seeking to block the use of the mifepristone drug nationwide. It also comes weeks after the pharmacy Walgreens announced that it would not distribute mifepristone in 20 states — an announcement that came on the heels of threats by Republican attorneys general that they might take legal action. Walgreens said in a statement at the time that it would only continue to dispense mifepristone, the first of two drugs in the medication abortion process, “in those jurisdictions where it is legal and operationally feasible.” Walgreens faced immediate backlash for the decision, most notably for restricting the medication in Alaska, Iowa, Kansas and Montana, where medication abortion pills are still legal. Those states have laws limiting where abortion patients may obtain drugs for medication abortion — but critics note that in some of those states, those laws have been halted by court order.  The Republican attorneys general made similar requests last week to Rite Aid, Costo, Kroger, Walmart and the Albertsons Companies — though the other pharmacy chains have remained quiet about their policies around mifepristone. The US Food and Drug Administration had previously said that pharmacies that become certified to dispense mifepristone can do so directly to someone who has a prescription from a certified prescriber. Today's hearing is focusing on a lawsuit filed by anti-abortion advocates against the US Food and Drug Administration which targets the agency’s two-decade-old approval of mifepristone, the first drug in the medication abortion process. Medication abortion, which now makes up a majority of abortions obtained in the US, has become a particularly acute flashpoint in the fallout from the Supreme Court’s decision last year overturning Roe v. Wade. Any decision that blocks access to medication abortion – even temporarily – will significantly disrupt abortion cases nationwide. Reproductive rights advocates say that if the federal judge ultimately sides with the plaintiffs, “it would eliminate the most commonly used method of abortion care,” according to NARAL Pro-Choice America. Here a look at how the federal judge's ruling could impact abortion access: US District Judge Matthew Kacsmaryk, the federal judge overseeing a challenge to the federal government’s approval of a medication abortion drug, is holding a hearing in the case in Amarillo, Texas. Electronics and video are not allowed in the federal courtroom. CNN's reporters are inside and will provide updates as the hearing unfolds. The case concerns a challenge brought by anti-abortion doctors and medical associations to the federal government’s 2000 approval of a drug used to terminate pregnancies. Medication abortion is the most common method of abortion in the United States. What's at stake: If the judge grants the request to block access to the drug nationwid