1. Singapore Changi Airport: Singapore's Changi Airport, known for its stunning indoor waterfall, is top of Skytrax's 2023 ranking of the world's best airports. 2. Hamad International Airport: Hamad International Airport in Doha, Qatar, is number two on Skytrax's list. Skytrax is a UK-based airline and airport review and ranking site and compiles its list by surveying travelers from across the world. 3. Tokyo International Airport (Haneda): Tokyo's Haneda Airport is third on Skytrax's ranking, and also won a separate award for cleanest airport. 4. Incheon International Airport: South Korea's Incheon International Airport was also crowned airport with the best staff and immigration processing. 5. Paris Charles de Gaulle Airport: The top airport in Europe, France's Charles de Gaulle Airport rounds out Skytrax's top five. 6. Istanbul Airport: Turkey's Istanbul Airport also won Skytrax's Most Family-Friendly Airport. It's also the airport with the highest passenger numbers, according to Skytrax. 7. Munich Airport: Germany's Munich Airport is number seven on the overall list, and won Skytrax's Best Airport Staff in Europe award and Best Airport in Central Europe award. 8. Zurich Airport: Switzerland's Zurich Airport also won World's Best Airport Security Processing. 9. Narita International Airport: Narita International Airport is one of two Japanese airports in the top ten. 10. Madrid-Barajas Airport: Spain's Madrid-Barajas Airport is number 10 on Skytrax's list. 11. Vienna International Airport: Another European airport, Austria's Vienna International Airport, also made the Skytrax round-up. 12. Helsinki-Vantaa Airport: This transport hub in the Finnish capital also won the Best Airport in Northern Europe award and the Cleanest Airport in Europe award. 13. Rome Fiumicino Airport: At number 13 is Rome's Fiumicino Airport, located in the Italian capital. 14. Copenhagen Airport: Denmark's Copenhagen Airport also earned a spot in the Skytrax top 20. 15. Kansai International Airport: Japan's Kansai Airport is known for its interesting location -- it's on an artificial island. 16. Chubu Centrair International Airport: Chubu Centrair airport is also on an artificial island, located near Nagoya, Japan. The airport also won Skytrax's World's Best Regional Airport award. 17. Dubai International Airport: Dubai's main airport also made Skytrax's ranking. 18. Seattle-Tacoma International Airport: The highest rated US airport also won Skytrax's Best Airport in North America award. 19. Melbourne Airport: This Aussie airport also won Skytrax's Best Airport in Australia & Pacific award and Best Airport Staff in Australia & Pacific award. 20. Vancouver International Airport: Rounding out the top 20 is Canada's Vancouver International Airport, also awarded Cleanest Airport in North America.