Our live coverage of Russia's war in Ukraine has moved here. Watch the interview here: Roman Trokhymets is a Ukrainian soldier who served around the eastern city of Bakhmut, the scene of some of the fiercest fighting between Ukraine and Russian forces. Recovering from a recent injury, he told CNN's Erin Burnett on Tuesday what it was like fighting in a war to protect his country. “I can’t even describe the whole emotions, that’s why I try to drop some video and the photos, because sometimes you can’t understand everything, just look at the photo,” he said. “It’s really hell on earth, is what I can say in just a few words,” Trokhymets said. Trokhymets, who was a realtor before the war, has been tweeting photos and videos from the frontlines. It is premature to draw conclusions about the dynamic of the fighting in Bakhmut as battles for control of the eastern city are still raging, Ukraine's Deputy Defense Minister Hanna Maliar said on national television Tuesday.  Russian forces are conducting offensive operations along the eastern front and are trying to advance in several directions, Maliar said. "Fighting continues near Kreminna, Bilohorivka and Spirne. Of course, Bakhmut is the epicenter. The enemy is trying to capture the city from several directions and to surround it," she said.  Russian forces had "some minor success" but the Ukrainian military had "significant successes," although she declined to go into details. "There is a positive dynamic," she said.  Maliar added: "When there are battles, we need to understand that both sides are moving. And it is premature to draw conclusions ... This is a process. The battles for the city [of Bakhmut] are not over, and therefore they can have different dynamics — positive and negative, and we should take it as the Ukrainian army is doing absolutely everything it can to prevent the enemy's plans from being realized," she said.  A Russian fighter jet forced down a US Air Force drone over the Black Sea on Tuesday after damaging the propeller of a MQ-9 Reaper drone, according to US officials. The drone was flying over international waters when one of two Russian jets intentionally flew in front of and dumped fuel on the unmanned drone several times, according to the US European Command.  Russia has pushed back, denying that its jets came "into contact" with the drone. The Russian Ambassador to the US said Russia does not want “confrontation” with the US but "as we see it, American aircraft have no business being near the Russian border." Here's what to know: US-Russia drone intervention: A Russian jet downed a US drone over the Black Sea. Aircraft from both countries have operated over the Black Sea during the course of the war, but this is the first known such interaction, a potentially dangerous escalation at a critical time in the fighting. The incident prompted US officials to express "strong objections" to diplomats. Pentagon Press Secretary Brig. Gen. Pat Ryder called it "uncommon and unfortunate and unsafe." President Joe Biden and US allies have been briefed, according to the White House and the Pentagon. Russian response: Russia has pushed back, denying that its fighter jets came "into contact" with the US drone. Russian Ambassador to the US Ambassador Anatoly Antonov said Russia does not want a "confrontation" with the US, but that the craft was too close to the Russian border. The drone has not been recovered, a spokesperson for US European Command said. Latest from the frontlines: Russian strikes across the Donetsk region have killed at least three people. In Bakhmut, social media posts appear to confirm fighting around the AZOM metallurgical plant in the north of the city. The intensity of shelling the city has increased, a Ukrainian soldier said on Ukrainian national television. Wagner units appear to be making limited advances but remain well short of encircling Bakhmut. In southern Ukraine, the Ukrainian military said it destroyed four Russian missiles that were headed toward the Odesa. Update on western aid: Ukrainian soldiers have nearly completed their training on Leopard 2 battle tanks in Munster, Germany, according to a spokesperson for the special training command. Once the training is finished, Germany can deploy the Leopard 2 tanks to Ukraine, the spokesperson said. Germany has so far vowed to supply Ukraine with 18 of the latest A6 model Leopard 2 tanks. Additionally, the Netherlands announced it will send two minesweepers, drone detection radar systems and ferrying and bridge-building systems to Ukraine, according to Dutch Defense Minister Kajsa Ollongren. War crime investigation: The Russian government has said it does not recognize the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court, after the court declared its plans to open two war crimes cases against Russia, according to The New York Times and Reuters. ##Catch Up## Russia's war in Ukraine is damaging the environment — and it needs to be discussed more by experts, Ukrainian and United Nations officials said. The Executive Director of the UN Environment Program, Inger Andersen, met with the Head of the Office of Ukraine's President, Andriy Yermak, in Kyiv on Tuesday, according to a statement from the Ukrainian presidency. The leaders discussed "the issue of Russian responsibility for environmental crimes in Ukraine." Yermak told Anderson that "Russia is causing enormous damage to the ecological system of our country," according to the statement. For her part, Andersen emphasized her support for Ukraine in overcoming the challenges to its ecological system due to the Russian invasion, and emphasized the importance of a deeper discussion about this issue at the expert level, according to the statement. Anatoly Antonov, the Russian Ambassador to the US, said Tuesday that Russia does not want “confrontation” with the US but "as we see it, American aircraft have no business being near the Russian border." Talking to reporters after he was summoned to the State Department following an incident that led to the downing of a US Reaper drone over the Black Sea, Antonov asked, "Could you imagine if such a UAV appeared suddenly close to New York or San Francisco?" "Can you imagine the reaction of the US press, the Pentagon, to this drone? What kind of drone was it? Think about this before summoning me to the State Department. It's a multipurpose [drone], with strike capabilities of up to a 1700 kg explosive payload," he said. "Tell me how any MoD of any country would react to the threat of such danger appearing along their borders?" Antonov did say he wanted to point out "how professional the Russian pilots were in their actions. No contact was made, nor were any weapons used by our fighter jets."   "I think it's better that we discuss at the State Department avenues of cooperation and mutual action, but unfortunately, my communication with the State Department lately has just been to address their protests about the actions of the Russian Federation," he said.  "The Russian Federation is not interested in confrontation. The Russian side is interested in pragmatic relations with the USA in the interests of both the Russian and American people."  Some background: The Reaper drone was flying over international waters when one of two Russian jets intentionally flew in front of and dumped fuel on the unmanned drone several times, according to the US European Command. The aircraft then hit the propeller of the drone, prompting US forces to bring the MQ-9 drone down in international waters. Pentagon spokesman Brig. Gen. Patrick Ryder added Tuesday that the Russian aircraft flew “in the vicinity” of the drone for 30 to 40 minutes before colliding just after 7 a.m. Central European Time. ##Drone Intercept## Polish Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki said on Tuesday that a transfer of Poland's supply of MiG-29 fighter jets to Ukraine “might happen within the next four to six weeks.”  Morawiecki made the remark while answering questions from reporters in Warsaw.   It comes after Polish President Andrzej Duda told CNN's Christiane Amanpour in a late February interview that Ukrainian pilots were "prepared to operate" MiG-29 fighter jets. Ukrainian pilots however will likely need more training to "be ready to fly modern aircraft at NATO standards, such as F-16s," Duda said, emphasizing that the "training of a pilot is much more complicated and much longer [than the training of a tank operator].”  Duda told CNN that modern weapons are "key" to shoring up Ukraine's ability to defend itself from Russia. When asked if that includes fighter jets, he responded: “If there is such a need, of course, yes.”  The US is taking measures to ensure that the drone that was downed over the Black Sea won't fall into the wrong hands, a top White House official said Tuesday. “Without getting into too much detail, what I can say is that we've taken steps to protect our equities with respect to that particular drone – that particular aircraft. And it’s the United States property. We obviously don't want to see anybody getting their hands on it beyond us,” John Kirby, National Security Council coordinator for strategic communications, told CNN’s Jake Tapper on Tuesday. Pressed on whether the US would show evidence to back its account of what happened – given Russia’s denial – Kirby noted the US is “looking at some imagery to see if any of that might be suitable” for public release, but said no decisions have been made at this time.  He also dismissed the denial issued by Russia's ministry of defense. “Obviously we refute the Russians' denial and I think anybody, after a year now, Jake, should take everything that the Russians say about what they're doing in and around Ukraine with a huge grain of salt,” he said.  Kirby pointed to the summoning of Russia’s Ambassador to the US Anatoly Antonov to State Department as “one of the advantages of having diplomatic lines open,” saying that in the meeting, the State Department walked the ambassador “through the very significant and very real concerns over this unsafe and unprofessional conduct by Russian pilots.” He reiterated his condemnation of the incident, warning of immediate and broader implications. “We certainly don’t want to see this war escalate beyond what it has already done to the Ukrainian people,” Kirby said, calling it “inappropriate, unsafe, unprofessional conduct by the Russian pilots.” ##Drone Intercept## Russia does not want “confrontation” with the US, Ambassador Anatoly Antonov said Tuesday after he was summoned to the State Department following an incident that led to the downing of a US Reaper drone over the Black Sea. “We prefer not to create a situation where we can face unintended clashes or unintended incidents between the Russian Federation and the United States,” Antonov said. He was inside the State Department for a little over half an hour. Antonov said Assistant Secretary Karen Donfried conveyed the US’ concerns about the incident, and he “exchanged our remarks on this issue because we have some differences.” “It seems to me that it was a constructive conversation on this issue. I have heard her remarks, I hope that she has understood what I have mentioned,” Antonov said in response to a question from CNN. Antonov reiterated the ministry of defense’s denial that any Russian aircraft came into contact with the drone. He also claimed that Russia “had informed about this space that was identified as a zone for special military operation.” “We have warned not to enter, not to penetrate,” he said, asking how the US would react if a Russian drone came close to New York or San Francisco. ##Drone Intercept## Russian Ambassador to the US Anatoly Antonov arrived at the State Department in Washington on Tuesday afternoon after being summoned following the incident that resulted in the downing of a US Reaper drone over the Black Sea. Antonov did not respond to CNN’s request for comment. Antonov is expected to meet with Assistant Secretary of State for European Affairs Karen Donfried, a senior State Department official said. Antonov was summoned to "convey our strong objections," State Dept spokesman Ned Price said on Tuesday. In addition, the US Ambassador to Russia Lynne Tracy “has conveyed a strong message to the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs,” Price said. ##Drone Intercept##  A Russian fighter jet forcing down a US Air Force drone over the Black Sea was a "reckless act" by President Vladimir Putin and the Russian military, Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer said Tuesday. "I want to tell Mr. Putin, stop this behavior before you are the cause of an unintended escalation," he said.  He said the interception will not deter the United States from operating over the Black Sea. “These aggressive actions by Russian aircraft are risky and could lead, I repeat, to unintended escalation. The US has routinely flown over the Black Sea since before Putin’s illegal and reckless invasion of Ukraine, and I'm confident our military will continue to do so," Schumer said. Some background: The Russian ministry of defense on Tuesday denied that any of its aircraft came into contact with the US drone. ##Drone Intercept## A Russian fighter aircraft "did not use airborne weapons or come into contact" with a US Air Force MQ-9 Reaper drone over the Black Sea, the Russian defense ministry said in a statement Tuesday.  "On 14 March 2023 in the morning, the Russian airspace control systems have detected an American MQ-9 unmanned aerial vehicle flying over the Black Sea near the Crimean Peninsula in the direction of the state border of the Russian Federation," the ministry said in the statement, which they released in English as well.  "The drone flew with its transponders off, violating the boundaries of the temporary airspace regime established for the special military operation, communicated to all users of international airspace, and published in accordance with international standards," the ministry said.  The ministry said that Russian fighter jets "scrambled to identify the intruder." "As a result of quick maneuvering around 9.30 a.m. (Moscow time), the MQ-9 drone went into an unguided flight with a loss of altitude and collided with the water surface," the ministry said.  "The Russian aircraft did not use on-board weapons, did not come into contact with the unmanned aerial vehicle, and returned safely to their home airfield," the ministry said.  Some more context: Earlier today, the US Air Force said a Russian fighter jet forced down a US Air Force drone over the Black Sea after damaging the propeller of the drone. The White House is calling Moscow's actions "unsafe, unprofessional and reckless." While Russian and US aircraft have operated over the Black Sea during the Ukraine war, this is the first known interaction of this nature since the conflict began, and a potentially dangerous escalation at a critical time in the fighting. ##Drone Intercept## Russian aircraft were flying alongside a US Reaper drone for 30 to 40 minutes before they collided with it, ultimately causing it to crash, Pentagon spokesman Brig. Gen. Patrick Ryder said Tuesday. “[B]ased on the information I have here, it seems like approximately 30 to 40 minutes they were flying in the vicinity of this MQ-9,” Ryder said, before the aircraft “collided” with the drone, rendering it unflyable and forcing the US to bring it down into international waters.  ##Drone Intercept## The United States has been conducting intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance missions in international waters in the Black Sea “for some time,” including before Russia’s 2022 invasion of Ukraine, a Pentagon spokesperson said Tuesday. “The key point here is that while intercepts in and of themselves are not that uncommon, ... this type of behavior from these Russian pilots, that is uncommon and unfortunate and unsafe,” said Pentagon Press Secretary Brig. Gen. Pat Ryder. Ryder said that Russia has not recovered the downed drone.  Ryder would not say whether the MQ-9 drone was armed, but added that the Defense Department is working to declassify imagery from the intercept.  ##Drone Intercept## The US State Department is summoning the Russian ambassador to convey its "strong objections" to the downing of a US Reaper drone over the Black Sea, a spokesperson said. The “high-level engagement” with Ambassador Anatoly Antonov was expected to take place later Tuesday afternoon, State Department spokesperson Ned Price said. During the meeting, the ambassador will “hear directly from senior officials about our strong objections to what was clearly an unsafe and unprofessional intercept on the part of a Russian aircraft," the spokesperson said. In Moscow, US Ambassador Lynne Tracy “has conveyed a strong message to the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs” about the incident, according to Price.  US Secretary of State Antony Blinken is currently traveling and is not in Washington, DC. ##Drone Intercept## US Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin has not spoken to his Russian counterpart about the Russian aircraft intercepting a US Reaper drone, resulting in its downing over international waters. “In terms of Secretary Austin talking to his counterpart — not at this time, to my knowledge,” Pentagon spokesperson Brig. Gen. Patrick Ryder said Tuesday. “DoD officials have not spoken specifically to Russian authorities on this particular incident.”  The MQ-9 Reaper drone was conducting “routine operations in international airspace” on Tuesday when two Russian Su-27 aircraft intercepted it, a US military statement said. One of the Russian aircraft hit the drone, resulting in “a crash and complete loss” of the drone, Air Force Gen. James B. Hecker, commander of US Air Forces Europe and Air Forces Africa said. ##Drone Intercept## The owner of a car blown up Tuesday in the center of the Russian-occupied city of Melitopol has died in the hospital from his wounds, the Russian-backed regional administration said in a Telegram post.  Two others, a woman and a child, were also injured, according to Vladimir Rogov, a member of the main council of the pro-Russian Zaporizhzhia region military-civilian administration. All three have been hospitalized, he said.  The explosion was carried out with an improvised explosive device, according to Rogov, and it happened near a market. Rogov said a local pro-Russian entrepreneur was the target of the alleged attack.  CNN is not able to independently verify those claims.  The United States has briefed allies about Russia's downing of a US Reaper drone over the Black Sea, according to the State Department. Spokesperson Ned Price said Tuesday the US was “not in position to speak to what the Russians intended to do” with the maneuvers that brought the drone down, but noted that “the motivations matter much less than what actually transpired.” He said the US is "engaged at high levels with allies." “We are in a position to speak to what happened and what happened was an unsafe and unprofessional maneuver on the part of a Russian aircraft, a maneuver that was also tinged with a lack of competence that caused the US military to need to bring this unmanned craft down. That is the result again of these Russian actions. We can characterize them, but we can't characterize the motivations,” he said at a State Department briefing.  ##Drone Intercept## The US State Department’s Global Engagement Center on Tuesday released a new report outlining Russia’s attempts to spread disinformation about American and Ukrainian biological weapons.  The eight-page report does not seem to present new information about the disinformation effort, but rather gives a comprehensive look at the widespread efforts on the matter, from the days of the Soviet Union to the current war in Ukraine. The release of the report comes a day after a senior State Department official said that Russia and China have “clearly” aligned themselves on propaganda and disinformation regarding the war in Ukraine, and that the United States and the West have not invested enough over the years in countering such disinformation. Tuesday’s report noted that “Russia, like the Soviet Union before it, has pushed false claims for decades about biological weapons in an attempt to create mistrust in the peaceful global efforts and public health institutions that counter biological threats.” “Since the February 2022 full-scale invasion of Ukraine, Russia’s disinformation and propaganda ecosystem has increased the volume and intensity of its disinformation about biological weapons in an unsuccessful attempt to deflect attention from its invasion of Ukraine, to diminish international support for Ukraine, and to justify its unjustifiable war,” it stated. “Russia has a history of accusing others of doing what it is doing itself, and its recent biological weapons claims related to Ukraine are no different. The United States assesses that Russia continues to maintain an offensive biological weapons program in violation of its obligations under the Biological Weapons Convention,” the report added.  The report gave numerous examples of the disinformation that Russia has promulgated since the start of the war, including one of its "most notable false claims is that the United States worked with Ukraine to train an army of migratory birds, mosquitos and even bats to carry biological weapons into Russia," which it added was "absurd." The report described the false claims as being spread through "Russia’s disinformation and propaganda ecosystem, such as Kremlin-funded media outlets and Russian Intelligence-linked websites" and "so-called ‘experts'" who speak to the Russian press.  It also highlighted Russia's parliamentary commission investigating what it alleges are US biological laboratories in Ukraine, which the report said spreads false information about biological weapons. The US Reaper drone that crashed after being struck by a Russian fighter jet has not been recovered in the Black Sea, a spokesperson for US European Command said. In an earlier statement the commander for US Air Forces Europe said the drone was “hit by a Russian aircraft, resulting in a crash and complete loss of the MQ-9," US Air Forces commander Gen. James Hecker said. Some more context: CNN reported earlier a Russian fighter jet forced down a US Air Force drone over the Black Sea on Tuesday after damaging the propeller of the American MQ-9 Reaper drone, according to a US official familiar with the incident. The Reaper drone and two SU-27 Flanker jets were operating over international waters over the Black Sea when one of the Russian jets intentionally flew in front of and dumped fuel in front of the unmanned drone, according to the official. President Joe Biden was briefed Tuesday morning by National security adviser Jake Sullivan about the incident, according to National Security Council spokesperson John Kirby. US officials are planning to contact Russia to voice concern about the drone incident, according to Kirby. ##Drone Intercept## The US will continue operating over the Black Sea and won't be deterred by Russia's intercept of a drone in international airspace, a White House official said Tuesday. "If the message is that they want to deter or dissuade us from flying and operating in international airspace, over the Black Sea, then that message will fail, because that is not going to happen," said John Kirby, coordinator for strategic communications at the National Security Council. "We are going to continue to fly and operate in international airspace over international waters," he added. "The Black Sea belongs to no one nation. And we're going to continue to do what we need to do for our national security interests in that part of the world." Kirby repeatedly described the Russian intercept of the American drone as "unsafe" and "unprofessional," suggesting the actions went beyond previous Russian efforts at intercepting US aircraft. He said the presence of American drones in the area was not new. "We have been flying consistently over that airspace or a year," he said, arguing there was no reason to activate deconfliction lines with Russia or otherwise notify Moscow before flying over the Black Sea. "We don't need to have some sort of check-in with the Russians before we fly in international airspace," he said. ##Drone Intercept## US President Joe Biden was briefed Tuesday morning about an incident between a US drone and a Russian jet over the Black Sea. National security adviser Jake Sullivan briefed Biden on the matter, according to National Security Council spokesperson John Kirby.  He said it was "not uncommon" for Russian aircraft to intercept US aircraft over the Black Sea, and said there had been other intercepts in recent weeks. But he said the episode Tuesday was unique in how "unsafe, unprofessional and reckless" the Russian actions were. US officials are planning to contact Russia to voice concern about the drone incident, according to Kirby. "It is the State Department's intention to reach out and expressly and directly make our concerns known about this incident with Russian officials," Kirby said. He couldn't say whether that outreach had occurred. Kirby declined to speculate on the intentions of the Russian pilots. Some more context: CNN reported earlier a Russian fighter jet forced down a US Air Force drone over the Black Sea on Tuesday after damaging the propeller of the American MQ-9 Reaper drone, according to a US official familiar with the incident. The Reaper drone and two SU-27 Flanker jets were operating over international waters over the Black Sea when one of the Russian jets intentionally flew in front of and dumped fuel in front of the unmanned drone, according to the official. ##Drone Intercept## The intensity of shelling in the battle for the eastern city of Bakhmut has increased, but Russian infantry "cannot overcome our strongholds," a Ukrainian soldier currently fighting the city said Tuesday on Ukrainian national television.  "On our flank, the intensity of fighting has increased significantly in recent days — the southern outskirts of Bakhmut, Ivanivske. The enemy is trying to get to the area of the so-called 'airplane' in Bakhmut and cut the Kostiantynivka-Bakhmut road," said Yurii Syrotiuk, a grenadier with the 5th Separate Assault Brigade of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, referring to Bakhmut's now-destroyed airplane monument, which was a symbol of the city. "That is why mega-intense fighting is constantly going on. But every time the enemy tries to attack us, we counterattack the enemy. However, it has started using a lot of artillery, MLRS and aircraft. The enemy aviation is working from morning til night," he said.  Syrotiuk said Russian forces have so far been unsuccessful at reaching the area of where the airplane monument once stood. "Unfortunately, the front has already advanced quite close to the entrance to Bakhmut. The enemy is trying to attack from the direction of Ivanivske, but unsuccessful; we are constantly repelling them with our counterattacks, the enemy is trying to cut the Kostiantynivka-Bakhmut road at any cost — to encircle Bakhmut," he said.  Syrotiuk said that Russian infantry that cannot overcome Ukrainian strongholds are "pulling back, calling for their artillery, calling for aviation." "And this is happening 24/7. About two weeks ago, I couldn't imagine that there could be even more intense fighting, but as it turned out, there could be," he added. The Netherlands will send two minesweepers to Ukraine, along with drone detection radar systems and so-called M3 ferrying and bridge building systems, according to Dutch Defense Minister Kajsa Ollongren. In a statement Tuesday, the Dutch Defense Ministry outlined its plans to work with Belgium and possibly other allied countries to train Ukrainian forces in the use of the minesweepers. Supplying minesweepers to Ukraine will “contribute to Black Sea safety, Europe's security and global food security," Ollongren said. The defense minister spent the past few days in Ukraine visiting the southern cities of Mykolaiv and Odesa alongside her Ukrainian counterpart, Oleksiy Reznikov. The two ministers discussed the strengthening of coastal defenses, the importance of maritime safety and protecting grain ships, according to the statement. Ollongren highlighted the efforts of the Ukrainian forces, saying that although the Netherlands can provide Ukraine with “the material,” it is the Ukrainians themselves who are fighting “for every centimeter of [their] land.” A Russian fighter jet forced down a US Air Force drone over the Black Sea on Tuesday after damaging the propeller of a MQ-9 Reaper drone, according to a US official familiar with the incident. The Reaper drone and two SU-27 Flanker jets were operating over international waters over the Black Sea when one of the Russian jets intentionally flew in front of and dumped fuel in front of the unmanned drone, according to the official. One of the jets then damaged the propeller of the Reaper, which is mounted on the rear of the drone, the official said. The damage to the propeller forced the US to bring down the Reaper in international waters in the Black Sea. Russian and US aircraft have operated over the Black Sea during the course of the war, but this is the first known such interaction, a potentially dangerous escalation at a critical time in the fighting. According to a statement from the US Air Force: "At approximately 7:03 AM (CET), one of the Russian Su-27 aircraft struck the propeller of the MQ-9, causing U.S. forces to have to bring the MQ-9 down in international waters. Several times before the collision, the Su-27s dumped fuel on and flew in front of the MQ-9 in a reckless, environmentally unsound and unprofessional manner. This incident demonstrates a lack of competence in addition to being unsafe and unprofessional." "Our MQ-9 aircraft was conducting routine operations in international airspace when it was intercepted and hit by a Russian aircraft, resulting in a crash and complete loss of the MQ-9," said US Air Force Gen. James B. Hecker, commander of US Air Forces Europe and Air Forces Africa, according to the Air Force statement. "In fact, this unsafe and unprofessional act by the Russians nearly caused both aircraft to crash." "U.S. and Allied aircraft will continue to operate in international airspace and we call on the Russians to conduct themselves professionally and safely," Hecker added, according to the statement.  Some context: The US has been operating Reaper drones over the Black Sea since before the beginning of the war, using the spy drone to monitor the area. The Reaper drone can fly as high as 50,000 feet, according to the Air Force, and has the sensors and capabilities to gather intel and perform reconnaissance for extended periods of time, making it an ideal platform to track movements on the battlefield and in the Black Sea. ##Drone Intercept## Russia's lower house of parliament, the State Duma, on Tuesday adopted the third and final reading of a bill that introduces criminal liability for discrediting all participants, including volunteers, in the so-called "special military operation." The law now extends the Article 207.3 of the Criminal Code of the Russian Federation on liability for "fakes" about the Armed Forces of the Russian Federation to volunteer formations. Public dissemination of deliberately false information about the Russian Armed Forces, as well as volunteer formations, which had grave consequences, will see offenders facing up to 15 years in prison. What's next?: The bill has to pass the upper house of parliament, the Federation Council, and be signed into law by President Vladimir Putin.  In January, Yevgeny Prigozhin, the head of the private military company Wagner Group, which is considered a volunteer formation, appealed to the Russian State Duma to issue protections for the volunteers and convicts who fight as Wagner mercenaries in Ukraine. “There are media outlets that purposefully look out for negative information about the volunteers, including former prisoners, and publish such materials that portray the defenders of Russia — people who give up their lives for us — in a bad light, vilifying them as villains and criminals," Prigozhin said in a letter to Vyacheslav Volodin, speaker of the Russian State Duma, according to a version published by his holding company, Concord. Later in March, Prigozhin wrote another letter to the