Our live coverage has ended. Follow the latest news about the West Coast storms here and the East Coast storms here, or read through the updates below.  A mudslide Tuesday evening in Placer County, California has caused major damage to a home, according to officials. Placer County is about 62 miles northeast of Sacramento. “CAL FIRE/Placer County Fire Department firefighters at scene of major damage due to a mudslide into a residence on Ben Taylor Road in Colfax (Placer County) all occupants are accounted for,” a tweet from CAL FIRE Nevada-Yuba-Placer Unit said. The agency said no one was injured and an evacuation warning has been issued for 20 additional residences.  A temporary shelter has been opened to accommodate those impacted. “A temporary shelter has been set up in the city of Colfax at City Hall. Hard Road Closures: Hillcrest Blvd at Ben Taylor Rd/ Rising Sun St at Ben Taylor Rd,” the Placer County Sheriff’s Office said in a tweet. California Gov. Gavin Newsom has declared a state of emergency in three additional counties in response to recent storms in the state, his office said in a news release.  The state of emergency will aid the Alpine, Orange and Trinity counties with "storm response and relief efforts," the release said.  This adds to the 40 counties that Newsom previously declared in a state of emergency due to the storms across the state, the release said. A child was trapped underneath a tree after it fell during Tuesday’s winter weather in New Hampshire, officials say. The Derry Fire Department received a call at around 2 p.m. ET that a tree had fallen, striking and trapping a child underneath, the fire department said in a Facebook post. Derry is about 28 miles south of Concord. The child was playing outside near a parent who was clearing snow when the incident occurred, the department said. Multiple units, including the fire and police departments, a medic and a snow plow were called to the scene. For 19 minutes officials used their bare hands, chainsaws and shovels to free the child, the fire department said. The child, who was not named, was taken in an ambulance to a local hospital and was “found to be in good spirits and received minor injuries,” the department said. ##East Coast## The San Francisco Bay Area’s public transit system, known as BART, is being heavily impacted Tuesday evening by the ongoing storm system that is battering the state of California. “Most of our impacts on service have been due to high winds toppling trees and fallen branches entering our trackway,” BART spokesperson Cheryl Stalter told CNN.  “We have begun service restoration in some lines but do have major delays system-wide,” she added. The area has been under a high wind warning, according to the National Weather Service in San Francisco. The maximum wind gust at the San Francisco International Airport today was 77 mph. “Winds 20 to 40 mph with gusts 50 mph in the valleys. Gusts 55 to 70 mph immediate coastline and hills above 1000 feet,” the NWS said in a message. “Damaging winds will blow down trees and power lines. Widespread power outages are expected and roadways could be blocked by downed trees. Travel will be difficult,” the NWS said. CNN’s Robert Shackelford contributed to this report. ##California## More than 100 animals have been rescued from floodwaters around the Pajaro community In Monterey County since Saturday, a local animal welfare official told CNN.  The animals included dogs, cats, roosters, guinea pigs and lots of birds, said Jacob Duarte, Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Monterey County investigator. Officials are now reuniting the animals with their owners or being taken to a shelter until they can be reunited, Duarte added.  ##California## The latest atmospheric river event is bringing hurricane-force wind gusts to portions of central California, along with widespread rainfall totals of 1- 3 inches and isolated amounts of nearly half a foot.   The combination of winds and rain has led to more than 350,000 customers without power across California, according to PowerOutage.US. Santa Clara County, which is south of San Francisco, is experiencing the worst of the outages with more than 127,000 of their just more than 250,000 customers without power, PowerOutage.US data shows. The strong winds across central California will ease Tuesday afternoon and evening. A high wind warning remains in effect through late this evening for nearly 15 million people across the state. The heaviest rain is continuing to shift southward and will impact areas from San Luis Obispo to Los Angeles and San Diego from late Tuesday afternoon through early Wednesday morning. Here's where the top wind gusts were tracked as of 5 p.m. ET, according to the National Weather Service: 97 mph in Loma Prieta (Santa Clara County) 93 mph in Mines Tower (Almeda County) 90 mph in Lucas Valley (Marin County) 74 mph at the San Francisco Airport (San Mateo County) These are the rainfall totals from the NWS as of 5 p.m. ET: 5.79 inches in Mining Ridge (Monterey County) 4.29 inches in Rocky Butte (San Luis Obispo County) 3.68 inches in Manchester (Sonoma County) 3.61inches in Boulder Creek (Santa Cruz County) ##California## More than 270,000 customers are without power in the Northeast as of 6:40 p.m. ET due to inclement weather, according to PowerOutage.US.     Here's a breakdown of the outage numbers by state: New Hampshire:  73,804  New York: 73,201  Massachusetts: 53,459 Vermont:  27,046 Maine: 16,490 Connecticut: 13,256 Pennsylvania: 12,946 ##East Coast## Workers are making emergency repairs to the Pajaro River levee in Monterey County, California, as approximately 21,000 people are under an evacuation order or warning, county officials said. Contractors are filling the gaps in the levee and have approximately 20 feet to go, said Shaunna Murray, the senior water resources engineer at the Water Resources Agency. This temporary fix will stabilize the gap so that water flows out at a reduced rate, she said, adding officials hope the work will be completed by the end of Tuesday or on Wednesday. The full repair of the levee will take several additional weeks after this first repair is done, she added.    An additional breach has occurred near Highway 1 and is flowing out to the ocean, but the breach happened naturally and is helping to lower the flood level, Murray said.   In Pajaro, approximately 2,000 people evacuated with 239 rescues conducted by boat or high-water vehicles, Monterey County Sheriff Tina Nieto said during the press conference. In Aroyo Seco, approximately 350 people evacuated with approximately 20 to 40 residents sheltering in place, according to the sheriff.    ##California## Emergency responders are on the scene at a high-rise building in downtown San Francisco after glass from a window fell due to high winds, San Francisco Fire Captain Jonathan Baxter told CNN. “One window has broken and fallen out in several pieces, falling onto the ground; and a second is cracked,” Baxter said. “At this time, we are suspecting this is wind-related.” Both of the windows are located on the 43rd floor at the former Bank of America building which is a 52-story high-rise, Baxter said. There are no injuries and officials are not allowing anyone on the streets surrounding the building, Baxter noted. In a tweet, the fire department warned residents to shelter in place due to the falling glass. High winds have been reported across northern California on Tuesday. San Francisco International Airport reported lengthy ground stops due to sustained winds of 40 to 50 mph with gusts fairly consistently topping 60 mph. ##California## The ongoing storm system impacting the state of California has left nearly 360,000 customers without power as of Tuesday afternoon, according to PowerOutage.US. Santa Clara County, which is south of San Francisco, is experiencing the majority of the outages with 130,447 customers without power, the data from PowerOutage.US said.  ##California## A significant portion of the Northeast, from upstate New York through New England, has received 1 to 2 feet of snow in the past 24 hours, with some locations topping 3 feet.   The snow will remain moderate to heavy in many of these same areas through the evening before the snow begins to taper off overnight. Although minimal additional snowfall is expected after sunrise Wednesday, winds will be slower to ease. Areas from the mid-Atlantic through the entire Northeast will experience wind gusts of 30 to 45 mph through Wednesday afternoon. Top snow totals from the National Weather Service as of 6 pm EDT: 33” Hawley, Massachusetts 33” Greenville, New Hampshire 32.4” Marlboro, Vermont 32” Rowe, Massachusetts  31” Indian Lake, New York ##East Coast## Millions of people in California were under flood alerts Tuesday as an atmospheric river makes its way over a region already drenched by rain. An atmospheric river is a plume of moisture that helps carry saturated air from the tropics to higher latitudes, delivering unrelenting rain or snow. Typically 250 to 375 miles wide, atmospheric rivers can stretch more than a thousand miles long, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration says. Atmospheric rivers aren't a new phenomenon — in the western US, they account for 30% to 50% of annual precipitation, according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. However, the eastern half of the US also experiences atmospheric rivers, with moisture pulled from the Gulf of Mexico. While atmospheric rivers are an incredibly important source of rainfall, they can also bring flash flooding, mudslides and landslides, sometimes killing people and destroying property. Impact of climate change: As the world warms, the atmosphere can hold more moisture – which will lead to rainier atmospheric river events. “It’s expected that as the air temperatures increase, the air can hold more water vapor, and therefore any storms that are comprised of water vapor will have more of it,” said Jason Cordeira, associate professor of meteorology at Plymouth State University. Atmospheric rivers will be “significantly longer and wider than the ones we observe today, leading to more frequent atmospheric river conditions in affected areas,” a NASA-led study found. The frequency of the most intense atmospheric rivers will likely double, the study found. ##California## A ground delay remains in effect at San Francisco International Airport on Tuesday afternoon due to winds, airport spokesman Doug Yakel said. “This has caused 38 flight cancellations and 345 flight delays, which is about 33% of flights at SFO,” Yakel said.  The average delay is 155 minutes, the Federal Aviation Administration said. The airport has been reporting sustained winds of 40 to 50 mph with gusts fairly consistently topping 60 mph over the past 3 to 4 hours, according to CNN Weather.  The highest gust today has been a hurricane-force 74 mph, occurring just before noon local time. CNN Weather’s Taylor Ward contributed to this report. ##California## More than 239 people have been rescued in the Pajaro area in Monterey County, California, after heavy rain created flooding and hazardous conditions on the west coast, Monterey County Sheriff Tina Nieto said. Speaking at a news conference Tuesday, she said officials use high-water vehicles and boats to perform those rescues. More than 2,000 people have also been evacuated from the Pajaro area which was hit hard by flooding, Nieto said. “We’re asking people to please leave,” she said. Nieto added that the sheriff’s office does not have the resources to force people to evacuate, but pleaded for residents to listen to warnings and guidance, stressing the danger of affected areas. She cautioned people still in Pajaro not to drink the water, adding that environmental officials are working to make sure it is safe. For people who were evacuated and displaced from their homes, some local hotels have been taking in families, said Rob O’Keefe from the Monterey Convention and Visitors Bureau. More than 30 hotels are participating in the evacuation program, he said, but some issues are arising when the power goes out. O'Keefe said they have also reached out to hotels in neighboring counties that still have electricity to try to work around that problem. ##California## The storm system that is impacting California has left over 250,000 customers without power on Tuesday afternoon, according to PowerOutage.US. Santa Clara County which is south of San Francisco is experiencing the majority of the outages with more than 74,000 customers without power, the data shows.   ##California## Residents in California are continuing to deal with yet another storm system that is bringing the risk of devastating floods across the state. This has led various municipalities to issue either evacuation warnings or evacuation orders. California Governor's Office of Emergency Services (Cal OES) spokesman Gustavo Ortiz told CNN that as of Tuesday morning, there were 71,678 people under evacuation warnings and 26,911 people under evacuation orders. According to Ortiz, most of these evacuations are in Monterey County. Warning vs. order, what's the difference?: An evacuation warning “means there’s impending danger to your life or property. If a warning is given assume an evacuation order will follow,” Cal OES said in a news release on Tuesday.  An evacuation order “means there’s an immediate threat to your life and you need to leave right now,” Cal OES said. There are nearly 30 million people in California who are under a flood threat from the atmospheric river storm system that is battering the state. Note: These stats are constantly changing as this is an active weather system impacting the state. CNN’s Taylor Ward contributed to this report.  ##California## Some areas of northern Massachusetts could still see an additional 8 inches of snow by day's end, according to the National Weather Service in Boston. The weather service warned of a messy evening commute and gusty winds through the evening. According to snowfall reports from the weather service, some areas in higher elevations in New England have measured more than 20 inches of snow before midday Tuesday. The National Weather Service in Albany said that the town of Piseco in the southern Adirondacks saw nearly 2.5 inches of snow in just one hour. ##East Coast## Officials in Santa Barbara County, California, have issued an evacuation order for several burn areas ahead of intense rain and flooding. Anyone living in the Alisal, Cave or Thomas Fire burn areas should leave, the county said on its website. There is an evacuation center set up at the Wake Center on Turnpike Road, it said in a tweet. "Flooding and debris flow hazards exist due to the storm" in these areas, it said in another tweet. The county also urged people not to try to drive when it is dark or raining and encouraged those choosing not to evacuate to be prepared in case emergency responders cannot get to them. Santa Barbara County is under a flood watch effective until Tuesday night, according to the National Weather Service. Here's the latest forecast across the state from the Governor's Office of Emergency Services: ##California## The Air Force Reserve hurricane hunters are flying missions in both the atmospheric river system on the Pacific Coast and the nor’easter on the Atlantic Coast to collect data to improve the forecasts for the regions impacted by these storms.  Until the last few years, forecasters had to rely solely on satellites and forecast models for forecasting atmospheric rivers, which can become very muddy, without truly knowing what’s happening inside the storms, according to CNN meteorologist Jennifer Gray. The University of California-San Diego, the Scripps Institution of Oceanography and the Center for Western Weather and Water Extremes have teamed up with the hurricane hunters, who are able to drop instruments called dropsondes inside an atmospheric river to relay pinpointed live weather data. The information is immediately put into weather forecast models, which improves the accuracy of the forecast dramatically.  “We’re flying missions from sea to shining sea out here,” the hurricane hunters tweeted on Tuesday. “It’s just what we do.” ##East Coast## ##California## Western Massachusetts and southern Vermont report over two feet of snow from the nor’easter that is impacting the region. Surrounding areas have reported over a foot of snowfall. Heavy snow is forecast to continue over the interior Northeast and New England on Tuesday and will taper off going into Wednesday. Here is a list of some of the snow reports across the Northeast and New England as of 10 a.m. ET: Windsor, Massachusetts: 28.0 inches Readsboro, Vermont: 24.5 inches Hawley, Massachusetts: 24.0 inches Heath, Massachusetts: 22.0 inches Windham, Vermont: 21.4 inches Goshen, Massachusetts: 21.0 inches Palenville, New York: 18.0 inches Greenville, New Hampshire: 15.0 inches Grandville, Connecticut: 11.3 inches Monroe, New York: 9.0 inches ##East Coast## Over 840 flights have been canceled within, into, or out of the United States so far today, according to the flight-tracking website FlightAware. There are also more than 1,600 flight delays in the US, according to the site. As of 11:40 a.m. ET, the top three airports affected are Boston Logan International in Massachusetts, LaGuardia Airport in New York City and Newark-Liberty International in New Jersey. ##East Coast## More than 252,000 customers are without power in the Northeast as of 11 a.m. ET due to inclement weather, according to poweroutage.us.     New York and New Hampshire currently have the most outages. Here's the breakdown by state: New York: 98,019  New Hampshire: 64,537  Massachusetts: 58,873  Vermont: 31,412  NOTE: This outage number has increased from approximately 220,000 customers without power in the Northeast as of 9:30 a.m. ET. ##East Coast## Some incoming flights into San Francisco International Airport Tuesday morning were delayed over 80 minutes — with some delayed over two hours. Gusting winds and wet runways caused a ground delay for incoming flights at the airport, according to the Federal Aviation Administration. Correction: An earlier version of this post incorrectly described delays at the airport. It was a ground delay. ##California## Precipitation will gradually become heavier across California Tuesday as the latest atmospheric river moves on land. Rain covers much of Northern and Central California with snow in the higher elevations of the Sierra Nevada on Tuesday morning. Rain is beginning to move into Southern California. Rain rates of a half to one inch per hour are expected Tuesday, resulting in potentially significant flash flood impacts. The two areas of most concern for these impacts are along the central California coast between Monterrey and Santa Barbara Counties, and across southern upslope regions of the Sierra, near Fresno to Bakersfield. Farther north, slightly lower rainfall rates are expected for a longer duration. Flash flooding is still expected, especially where snow melt enhances runoff along the central and northern Sierra.  “The storm will create considerable to locally catastrophic flooding impacts below 5,000 feet elevation and is expected to shift south across much of the California Coast, Central Valley, and the Sierra Nevada foothills,” the Weather Prediction Center said early Tuesday, adding, “Creeks and streams will continue to be vulnerable to flooding from additional rain and snowmelt.” In the higher elevations of the Sierra Nevada, new snow will be measured in feet on top of what is already a record snow levels for mid-March. This staggering amount of snow and, at slightly lower elevations, rain absorbed into the particularly deep snowpack will further compound ongoing snow load impacts and issues. ##California##   Officials in California's San Bernardino County said they are preparing for the possibility of a significant runoff in their county from an approaching atmospheric river system. “Due to the expected rain and potential for significant runoff, #SBCoFD is pre-positioning additional engine crews, chief officers, dispatchers and field observers to rapidly support any emerging situation. Assets tasked to the storm response shall also remain in place,” the San Bernardino County Fire said in a tweet Monday evening. The San Bernardino County mountain communities were heavily impacted recently by unprecedented snow from a series of winter storms that led to residents being trapped in their homes for days, CNN previously reported. ##California## The National Weather Service has increased the coverage of flood watches across California to around 30 million people. The most recent flood watches issued include Santa Barbara County, Ventura County and Los Angeles County. Major cities in flood watches include San Francisco, Oakland, Sacramento and Los Angeles. Rainfall totals through Wednesday are forecast to be 2 to 5 inches across coasts and valleys, with the highest amounts along the coast of Santa Barbara County. Higher elevations and mountains could see between 4 to 8 inches and rainfall rates could reach an inch per hour. Flood watches continue into the day on Wednesday. ##California## More than 220,000 customers are without power in the Northeast as of 9:30 a.m. ET due to inclement weather, according to PowerOutage.US.    New York and Massachusetts have some of the most outages: New York: 96,467  Massachusetts: 60,068   Vermont: 24,253  New Hampshire: 39,264  ##East Coast## More than 8,000 utility crews have been pre-deployed to handle power outages across New York state as a winter storm is expected to generate heavy snow, winds and coastal flooding across the US Northeast, according to New York Gov. Kathy Hochul. At least 4,000 power outages have already been reported in New York’s capital region, Hochul said on WAMC Radio Tuesday morning. She added that an emergency operations center has been open in Albany and crews have been out salting the roads throughout the night. Most roads across the state are currently open, but Hochul encouraged residents to stay off of them. Tractor trailers have been banned from driving with empty cargo, given the greater risks of accidents with lighter loads, Hochul said. “If conditions…deteriorate, then we’ll have to make some different decisions, but right now, with the exception of a couple of counties, most of the roads are open,” Hochul said. There have not yet been any reports of anyone trapped or needing rescue, Hochul said. She added that the New York state legislature is closed Tuesday due to the weather.  CNN’s Gili Remen contributed to this report.  ##East Coast## Over the past few days, snow amounts have been highest in New England and the Sierra Nevadas in eastern California — as well as northern states like Minnesota and Wisconsin. Use the map below to explore what areas have seen the largest snowfall levels: And here's where snow is expected to build up by the end of the week: LaGuardia Airport (LGA) in New York City is currently under a “ground delay” due to winter weather, according to the Federal Aviation Administration. The “ground delay” is in effect until at least 11:59 a.m. ET Tuesday, and there are average flight delays of about two hours. Flights that are departing LGA are being sprayed with deicing fluid to remove snow and ice, the FAA added. The FAA also said that ground stops at nearby Newark and JFK airports are “possible” later on Tuesday, but no official announcements have yet been made. ##East Coast## Another atmospheric river is creeping into storm-ravaged California, pummeling communities with more rain, prompting fresh evacuation alerts and putting rescue teams on notice as residents work to recover from last week’s flooding storm. More than 30 million people across the state were under flood alerts as the West’s 11th atmospheric river of the season pushed into Northern California and aimed Tuesday toward central and Southern California, battering ground saturated by the last round of rain and overflowing rivers. The storm comes on the heels of another deadly atmospheric river – a long, narrow band of moisture that can carry saturated air thousands of miles like a fire hose. This round could bring up to 8 inches of rain – falling as fast as 1 inch per hour – in some places, with melting snowpack due to worsen flooding. And after this system, another atmospheric river is forecast next week, the National Weather Service said. From severe flooding to long droughts, water-related disasters have gotten more intense in the last two decades as global temperatures climbed to record levels, new research shows. Now, evacuation alerts are in place across California, including in Monterey County, where residents along the Salinas River were ordered to flee. Los Angeles and Santa Barbara counties issued evacuation warnings Monday night ahead of the atmospheric river’s arrival in the south, with Santa Barbara officials saying the warnings will become orders in the morning. “The forthcoming rainstorms cause concerns of localized flooding impacts to already damaged infrastructure and increased potential for debris flows and mudslides,” the Los Angeles County Office of Emergency Management said in an email to CNN. Facing the latest storms’ one-two punch, over 600 Californians have taken refuge in 32 shelters across 13 counties, and California National Guard troops have been helping with swift-water rescues. Roads across the state are closed, and a key river levee has been breached. “We weren’t expecting it to be as bad as we’re seeing it,” Monterey Mayor Tyller Williamson told CNN Monday. ##California## Heavy snow rates of more than two inches per hour can be expected over the next several hours, the weather service in Albany, New York, warned Tuesday morning, adding that this will make travel very difficult. These high snowfall rates will lead to snow totals exceeding 7 inches in the Hudson Valley by 10 a.m. ET, and one to two feet in higher elevations.  Much of the interior Northeast and New England is or will experience similar heavy snow on Tuesday. Western Massachusetts is reporting up to a foot of snow has fallen overnight and much of the surrounding region has reports of 2 to 6 inches.  Additional snowfall accumulations of 6 to 12 inches are expected for many areas of upstate New York and New England, with even more for in the higher elevations. Rain and strong winds are in place along the East Coast Tuesday morning, including Boston. Rain changed over to snow in Worcester, Massachusetts, this early morning and is beginning to quickly accumulate, CNN Meteorologist Derek Van Dam noted. Snow is expected to overtake the rain closer to the coast later today. Winds gusts will also increase to up to 65 mph along the New England Coast.  “Things may get quite messy across this region during the afternoon given the wind and wet snow and travel may become quite difficult with power outages,” the weather service in Boston said Tuesday morning. More than 150,000 customers are already without power in New York, Massachusetts, New Hampshire and Vermont from the storm, according to poweroutage.us, and that number will likely grow today. ##East Coast## A ground stop has been issued at New York's LaGuardia Airport ahead of Tuesday's nor'easter.  "Due to WEATHER / SNOW-ICE, there is a Traffic Management Program in effect for traffic arriving La Guardia Airport, New York, NY (LGA)," the Federal Aviation Administration announced early Tuesday morning.  The first nor'easter of the season is expected to hit parts of the Northeast and New England with areas around New York City expected to feel the storm's effects later today.  ##East Coast## Some utilities and transit agencies have announced preparations and given advice in anticipation of an intensifying nor’easter. Power company ConEdison, which serves New York City and neighboring Westchester County, has brought in more than 400 outside workers to assist with possible outages, the utility said in a news release. ConEdison warned customers to avoid downed wires – which could be hidden by snow, leaves or water – and report them to the utility or local authorities immediately. The Metropolitan Transportation Authority, which serves a 5,000-square-mile travel area surrounding New York City, Long Island, southeastern New York state and Connecticut, also announced plans to maintain as much service as possible. “MTA employees will be deployed throughout the operating region spreading salt and clearing surfaces of snow, keeping signals, switches, and third rails operating, and attending to any weather-related challenges,” a release from the transit authority said. ##East Coast## More than 94,000 customers are without power in the Northeast due to inclement weather, according to poweroutage.us.   New York and Massachusetts have some of the highest outages:   New York: 50,400  Massachusetts: 21,585  Vermont: 11,241  New Hampshire: 10,907  ##East Coast##