Eliza Mackintosh is a London-based Senior Producer for CNN International, specializing in visual and interactive storytelling. She was part of a team that won an Emmy in 2022 for a series of investigations exposing atrocities carried out in Ethiopia's civil war. During her time at CNN, she has covered conflict, disinformation, terror and breaking news, reporting from across Europe, most recently in Ukraine. She has led investigations into Belarus' role concealing Russian casualties, the forced deportation and disappearances of Ukrainians, the killing of Palestinian-American journalist Shireen Abu Akleh in the West Bank, sexual violence and massacres in Ethiopia's Tigray region, the sentencing to death of a young Sudanese woman for killing a man she was forced to marry, child labor in the Democratic Republic of Congo's cobalt mines, and a Syrian mother's attempts to flee ISIS-held Raqqa. That teamwork has received a number of awards, including a News Emmy Award for Outstanding Research, an Alfred I. duPont--Columbia University Award, a SABEW Best in Business Award and a Peabody Award. In 2018, she helped launch As Equals, a CNN series on gender inequality initially backed by the European Journalism Centre and now funded by the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation. As part of the series, she reported on women's health and safety in Senegal. Eliza also started CNN's award-winning daily Covid-19 newsletter, and manages CNN's digital news internship program. Prior to joining CNNI in 2016, Eliza worked as a journalist and editor at Storyful, a social media startup. She has also reported for the Washington Post as a special correspondent in London. Eliza has given talks on social media verification at the London School of Economics and Political Science, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Columbia Journalism School, and at international media conferences. Originally from Hanover, New Hampshire, Mackintosh graduated summa cum laude from the University of New Hampshire in 2012, where she completed a double major in journalism and communication.