Rahel Solomon is a business correspondent for CNN International. Based in New York she reports on global business news across CNNI and other CNN networks and platforms. She also regularly fills in on CNNI's premier business programs, First Move and Quest Means Business. Additionally, Solomon is the host of the new CNNI series The Next Frontier, which explores the future of living and how the cities of tomorrow are being imagined today. Most recently she reported on the 2023 U.S. banking crisis including the rescue of First Republic Bank and the collapse of Silicon Valley Bank (SVB) and Signature Bank. She also covered the emergency takeover of Credit Suisse by UBS and its impact on the global financial system as well as the Federal Reserve's fight to tame high inflation and its impact both in the U.S. and the world. Solomon joined CNN from CNBC, where she worked as a general news reporter appearing on many television and digital programs including The News with Shepard Smith, Halftime Report and Power Lunch. Prior to CNBC Solomon was a morning news anchor for CBS3 in her hometown of Philadelphia, PA. At CNBC Solomon covered many stories including unemployment and labor issues. Her stories focused on shifts in the labor market due to the COVID-19 pandemic, technological and staffing challenges for state employment offices and long delays in receiving benefits for the unemployed. While at CBS3 she covered the papal visit of Pope Francis during the World Meeting of Families in 2015. Solomon first worked at CNN in 2012 as an intern for CNN's Special Investigations Unit in Washington, DC. During her internship she had the opportunity to work on CNN's investigation into delays for treatment veterans experienced at VA hospitals and assist with the network's 2012 midterm election night coverage. Named the Colorado Association of Black Journalists' Broadcast Journalist of the Year in 2015, Solomon graduated with high honors from St. John's University, earning a bachelor's degree in finance. She also earned a master's degree from the Medill School of Journalism at Northwestern University.