Wildlife photographer Tim Laman has spent three decades photographing birds of every shape and size across six continents. He's crawled through marshes, stood in river deltas, and crouched in camouflaged "blinds" to try to capture the perfect shot. Highlights of his exhilarating career are collected in his new photo book, "Bird Planet," from the striking scarlet ibis (pictured) to dazzling birds-of-paradise. Look through the gallery to see more of his stunning images. Laman says he often pre-plans and sets up aspects of his shot, like this one of a hummingbird in California. Hummingbirds are territorial, feeding on the same flowers multiple times a day, allowing Laman to choose a spot they frequent, observe them and set up his equipment. "You can kind of pre visualize the shot and think about the background, foreground, lighting and angles," he says. "You can try to almost design a beautiful shot, (and then) wait for the bird to come do his thing." Some shots are more opportunistic -- like this one of a male rhinoceros hornbill in flight with a mouse in its beak, at Budo Su-ngai Padi National Park, Thailand. Describing them as the "largest and most charismatic birds of the canopy," Laman featured them in his first article for National Geographic magazine. Photographing every species of the tropical birds-of-paradise became Laman's passion project, and he spent 544 days over eight years in New Guinea scouting the birds and setting up shots. This is a rare blue bird-of-paradise, captured on its favorite feeding tree in the Tari Valley in Papua New Guinea. In Coachella Valley, California, Laman captured a close-up portrait of Costa's hummingbird. He spent hours watching the hummingbird return to its favorite perch to rest, and moved closer until he was within six feet of the tiny bird. One of Laman's favorite photographs is of a Greater bird-of-paradise at sunrise in New Guinea, Indonesia. It became the face of a successful protest by local conservationists to prevent parts of the rainforest being turned into sugarcane plantations. "If we protect the habitat for the birds, then everything else in that rainforest and Aru is also going to benefit," says Laman. "When you freeze a bird in flight, or a bird taking off or displaying, you capture a moment in time that most people don't see," says Laman. On one of his five trips to Antarctica, he captured this Adélie penguin "porpoising," a behaviour which allows it to catch a breath and look for where to land as it leaps in and out the water. As a conservation photographer, Laman says showing birds in their habitats helps to remind people they are part of a larger ecosystem. "That's one reason why (I include) these wider shots, where the birds are small in the environment. I think they're really important for getting that message across, about the importance of healthy habitats," says Laman.