Treasury Department officials have paid especially close attention to the flows of deposits in the wake of their actions Sunday to extend a federal backstop to all of Silicon Valley Bank’s deposits in order to ensure access to all of those funds on Monday. And the department has seen signs that deposit outflows from small and midsized lenders have slowed, according to a senior Treasury official. White House and Treasury Department officials spent the day in contact with regulators and bank executives as they monitored the effect of their dramatic emergency actions over the weekend.  While the early reports don’t mean the risks have dissipated, they do signal that a central component of the administration’s strategy – sending a clear message to depositors that their deposits were, in fact, safe – has had an effect. “The thing we were targeting was uninsured depositors feeling as if they weren’t protected,” the official said. “The scale and the breadth of what we did has sent that message.” While regional bank stocks have been hammered throughout the day, there’s also some cautious optimism that their efforts are having an effect as Wall Street firms – most notably JPMorgan – have opened up new lines of credit to some of the most at-risk banks.  Smaller lenders, also viewed as potentially at risk in the event of contagion, have reported stable conditions.  It’s clear, however, that administration officials are bracing for – and moving quickly to try and frame – the political fallout. President Joe Biden’s remarks before departing for his West Coast trip included implicit nods to that reality. The focus on new regulations is tied to that, as was Biden’s explicit, and repeated, assurances that taxpayer dollars are not at risk.  “This is an important point – no losses will be borne by the taxpayers,” Biden said. “Let me repeat that: No losses will be borne by the taxpayers.” After Silicon Valley Bank’s stunning collapse became the second-largest bank failure in US history, many customers are wondering if their money is safe. Here are the answers to some frequently asked questions: Do I have to worry about cash stored in my bank? In short, if you have less than $250,000 in your account, then you almost certainly have nothing to worry about. That’s because the US government insures the first $250,000 in eligible accounts. Many SVB customers had much more than $250,000 deposited and now that they can’t get their money, some companies are struggling to make payroll. Should I pull my money out of my bank? No, it doesn’t make sense to take all your money out of a bank, Jay Hatfield, CEO at Infrastructure Capital Advisors and portfolio manager of the InfraCap Equity Income ETF, said. But make sure your bank is insured by the FDIC, which most large banks are. “I don’t think people should panic, but it’s just prudent to have insured deposits versus uninsured deposits,” Hatfield said. Your money is most likely not going anywhere. Everyday consumers, on the whole, are unlikely to be affected. But the collapse is a good reminder to be aware of where your money is held, and not to have it all in one place. “The first bank failure since 2020 is a wake-up call for people to always make sure their money is at an FDIC-insured bank and within FDIC limits and following the FDIC’s rules,” said Matthew Goldberg, a Bankrate analyst. How does this compare to 2008? The banking sector should be, theoretically, more stable due to the regulatory reforms put in place after the crisis in 2008. The government’s actions this weekend also try to prevent the next SVB from happening, further stabilizing the sector after a chaotic week. Rising interest rates meant cheap Treasury bonds SVB and other banks invested in years ago crumbled in value – last week’s bank run was triggered by SVB selling those securities at a steep loss to help pay customers’ deposit withdrawals after people started pulling their money out of the bank. The Fed also said it will offer bank loans for up to a year in exchange for US Treasury bonds and mortgage-backed securities that lost value. The Fed will honor the debt’s original value for the banks that take the loans. Find more answers. Republican presidential candidate Nikki Haley on Monday criticized the Biden administration’s efforts to contain the fallout from two bank failures in recent days, arguing “taxpayers should not be responsible.” “Joe Biden is pretending this isn't a bailout. It is. Now depositors at healthy banks are forced to subsidize Silicon Valley Bank's mismanagement. When the Deposit Insurance Fund runs dry, all bank customers are on the hook. That’s a public bailout. Depositors should be paid by selling off Silicon Valley Bank's assets, not by the public. Taxpayers should not be responsible,” Haley said in a statement.  CNN has reported US taxpayers will not be on the hook for either facility, according to regulators. How this works: The Biden administration will draw from the Deposit Insurance Fund to backfill customers' deposits, Biden said Monday, reiterating comments from the heads of Treasury, the Federal Reserve and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation that the plan would not be funded by taxpayers. "No losses will be — and this is an important point — no losses will be borne by the taxpayers; let me repeat that, no losses will be borne by the taxpayer," Biden said in remarks delivered from the White House. "Instead the money will come from the fees that banks pay into the Deposit Insurance Fund." The FDIC's Deposit Insurance Fund (DIF) is used to help pay for operating costs as well as to resolve failed banks. It's funded by quarterly fees collected from FDIC-insured banks as well as interest earned from its investments in Treasury securities.  As of December 31, 2022, the DIF's fund balance was $128.2 billion, according to the FDIC. Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer and House Minority Leader Hakeem Jeffries said Monday that Congress will look at the causes of the recent bank failures. “In the coming days and weeks, Congress will be looking closely at the causes behind the run on Silicon Valley Bank and other banks and how we can prevent a similar crisis in the future,” the two Democrats said in a joint statement. Schumer and Jeffries also praised President Joe Biden’s handling of the situation so far. The president directed his administration to take a series of actions including backstopping depositors’ funds, making sure taxpayers are not on the hook for these moves, holding those responsible accountable and declining to extend relief to investors of Silicon Valley Bank. Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. officials declined a bid to purchase assets from the failed Silicon Valley Bank during an auction that took place this weekend, but that doesn’t mean their efforts to secure a sale of the bank’s assets are finished, sources familiar with the matter say.  Officials who briefed Senate Republicans on the dramatic government actions taken in response to the failure of Silicon Valley Bank and Signature Bank said they were weighing plans for a second auction in the future, the sources said. The timeline for a second auction was not clear, but the officials noted that the government action to backstop uninsured deposits, as well as the creation of a Federal Reserve-operated emergency lending facility for small and mid-sized banks, created new conditions that may make lenders more willing to submit bids to purchase the failed bank’s assets, the sources said.  Biden administration officials worked furiously throughout the weekend in an effort to find a buyer for the bank’s assets before ultimately deciding to launch the dual-pronged emergency actions.  The FDIC solicited bids from other banks to potentially purchase Silicon Valley Bank. But one senior Treasury official noted on Sunday that "things moved very quickly" and that the decision was made to "move early" and trigger the systemic risk exception — a designation that provides more leeway to immediately advance funds to those holding deposits above the current $250,000 threshold covered by FDIC.  The official noted it would have been "pretty difficult" for a potential buyer to have gone through SVB's books, agreed to purchase the assets and been in a position to open for business on Monday.  Instead, the FDIC transferred all of the bank’s deposits and assets to a government-operated “bridge bank” that opened and resumed normal banking hours and business operations.   The blame game is on for who caused Silicon Valley Bank’s collapse, and the tech sector is pointing the finger at SVB CEO Greg Becker for allowing his company to go down in history as the second-biggest US banking failure on record. One Silicon Valley Bank employee, who requested anonymity to speak candidly, was dumbfounded by how Becker publicly acknowledged the extent of the bank’s financial troubles before privately lining up the necessary financial support to ride out the storm. This set the stage for the panic that ensued as customers scrambled to pull their money. “That was absolutely idiotic,” the employee, who works on the asset management side of Silicon Valley Bank, told CNN in an interview. “They were being very transparent. It’s the exact opposite of what you’d normally see in a scandal. But their transparency and forthright-ness did them in.” What happened: Becker and his leadership team revealed last Wednesday night a hope (but no firm commitment) to raise $2.25 billion in capital as well as $21 billion in asset sales that sparked a $1.8 billion loss. That news set off a wave of fear across Silicon Valley, where the bank serves as a key lender to tech startups. Many of them panicked, yanking $42 billion last Thursday alone when Silicon Valley Bank’s stock crashed by 60%, according to filings by California regulators. By the close of business that day, Silicon Valley Bank had a negative cash balance of about $958 million. The Silicon Valley Bank insider said the mismanagement of the bank’s balance sheet heading into last week was “stupidity” and questioned the strategy of the CEO and CFO. Still, the employee, who is a Wall Street veteran, emphasized his belief that the downfall of Silicon Valley Bank was brought on by errors and “naivety,” not outright wrongdoing. “The saddest thing is that this place is Boy Scouts,” he said. “They made mistakes, but these are not bad people.” The Federal Reserve announced Monday it has launched a review of the supervision and regulation of Silicon Valley Bank following the lender's sudden implosion. The Fed said the review will be run by Michael Barr, the central bank's vice chair for supervision, and the results will be publicly released by May 1. The review comes just days after Silicon Valley Bank collapsed, raising questions about how regulators — including those at the Fed itself — missed the trouble that was brewing. "The events surrounding Silicon Valley Bank demand a thorough, transparent, and swift review by the Federal Reserve," Fed Chairman Jerome Powell said in a statement. "We need to have humility, and conduct a careful and thorough review of how we supervised and regulated this firm, and what we should learn from this experience," Barr said in a statement. Stocks closed mixed on Monday after a volatile trading day as investors mulled over federal regulators' plan to stymie effects from the collapse of Silicon Valley Bank and Signature Bank. Stocks teetered throughout the day as investors assessed the US government's actions and how upheaval in the banking sector will affect the Federal Reserve's monetary policy going forward. The VIX, which measures market volatility, reached its highest level since late 2022 as shares of US regional lenders dipped in and out of trading halts Monday. Shares of Western Alliance tumbled 47%. First Republic Bank tanked about 62%. Even the larger banks were affected: Wells Fargo fell by roughly 7% and Citigroup dropped by 7.4%. The 2-year Treasury note, meanwhile, posted its largest three-day yield drop since the Black Monday stock crash in October of 1987. Tuesday's Consumer Price Index inflation report for February will offer more clues about inflation rates and future interest rate hikes. The Dow fell 91 points, or 0.3% in trading on Monday. The S&P 500 was 0.2% lower. The Nasdaq Composite gained 0.5%. ##Stocks## Stocks teetered but held on to their gains by mid-afternoon Monday, as Wall Street mulled over the government's plan to keep banks afloat. The Nasdaq Composite climbed 1.3%, leading the major indexes' gains. The S&P 500 gained 0.6% and the Dow rose 0.4%. The US government raced to prevent further fallout in the bank sector over the weekend after the collapse of Silicon Valley Bank and Signature Bank. The Biden administration said it will backfill customer deposits at both banks. That's "gone a long way towards curing some of the crisis of confidence investors had in what occurred in the banking sector and its spillover to not only other banks and financial institutions, but maybe even ultimately the broader economy," said Mark Luschini, chief investment strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott. Treasury yields have fallen sharply, with 2-year notes seeing their largest three-day drop since Black Monday in October 1987. The drop in yields has helped "support those long-duration, high-growth sector securities that dominate, say for instance the tech or communications sector," Luschini said. ##Stocks## As shares of regional banks plummet, financial institutions are attempting to ease worries on Wall Street that they could face the same troubles that plagued Silicon Valley Bank. Charles Schwab trimmed steep losses on Monday after putting out a statement that emphasized the company has access to plenty of cash. Schwab said that more than 80% of its total bank deposits fall within insurance limits of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, which insures up to $250,000. “Schwab is well-positioned to navigate the current environment,” the company said, adding that it applauds regulatory efforts to support depositors and “bolster confidence across the American banking system.” Schwab shares were down about 10% in recent trading, recovering a bit from an earlier selloff of as much as 23%. Shares of Western Alliance, a Phoenix-based regional bank, plunged about 53% in recent trading even after attempting to ease investor concern. “Western Alliance has taken additional steps to strengthen its liquidity position to ensure that we are in a position to meet all of our client funding needs, including increasing our borrowing capacity,” Western Alliance CEO Kenneth Vecchione said in a statement. Western Alliance described deposit outflows as “moderate” and said cash reserves exceed $25 billion. First Republic Bank on Sunday said its capital and liquidity positions are “very strong,” bolstered by tapping new cash from the Federal Reserve and JPMorgan Chase.  Shares of First Republic Bank are down 65% in recent trading. Silicon Valley Bank collapsed with astounding speed on Friday. And while the US federal government stepped in to guarantee customer deposits, its downfall continues to reverberate across global financial markets — as seen in the subsequent shutdown of Signature Bank — and investors are on edge about whether its demise could spark a broader banking meltdown. Here’s what you need to know about the biggest US bank failure since the global financial crisis in 2008: Why did it collapse?: The root of its demise goes back several years. Like many other banks, SVB ploughed billions into US government bonds during the era of near-zero interest rates. What seemed like a safe bet quickly came unstuck, as the Federal Reserve hiked interest rates aggressively to tame inflation. When interest rates rise, bond prices fall, so the jump in rates eroded the value of SVB’s bond portfolio. The portfolio was yielding an average 1.79% return last week, far below the 10-year Treasury yield of around 3.9%, Reuters reported. At the same time, the Fed’s hiking spree sent borrowing costs higher, meaning tech startups had to channel more cash towards repaying debt. At the same time, they were struggling to raise new venture capital funding. That forced companies to draw down on deposits held by SVB to fund their operations and growth. Then the bank run: When SVB announced that it had sold a bunch of securities at a loss and would sell $2.25 billion in new shares to plug the hole in its finances, customers panicked and withdrew their money in large numbers. The bank’s stock plummeted 60% Thursday and dragged other bank shares down with it. By Friday morning, trading in SVB shares was halted and it had abandoned efforts to raise capital or find a buyer. California regulators intervened, shutting the bank down and placing it in receivership under the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, which typically means liquidating the bank’s assets to pay back depositors and creditors. In aiming to prevent further bank runs and helping companies pay staff and fund operations, US regulators said Sunday that they would guarantee all SVB customers’ deposits. The intervention does not amount to a 2008-style bailout, however, which means investors in the company’s stock and bonds will not be protected. Will this trigger a banking crisis? There are already some signs of stress at other banks, and authorities in the US and across Europe are watching closely. Trading in First Republic Bank (FRC) and PacWest Bancorp (PACW) was temporarily halted Monday after the shares plunged 65% and 52% respectively. Charles Schwab (SCHW) stock was down 7% at 11.30 a.m. ET Monday. In Europe, the benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Banks index, which tracks 42 big EU and UK banks, fell 5.6% in morning trade — notching its biggest fall since last March. Shares in embattled Swiss banking giant Credit Suisse were down 9%. SVB isn’t the only financial institution whose investments into government bonds and other assets have fallen dramatically in value. At the end of 2022, US banks were sitting on $620 billion in unrealized losses — assets that have decreased in price but haven’t been sold yet, according to the FDIC. Another key headline: HSBC stepped in Monday to buy SVB UK for £1 ($1.2), securing the deposits of thousands of British tech companies that hold money at the lender. Had a buyer not been found, SVB UK would have been placed into insolvency by the Bank of England, leaving customers with only deposits worth up to £85,000 ($100,000) — or £170,000 ($200,000) for joint accounts — guaranteed. ##Catch Up## Western Alliance Bank said Monday that it's taking steps to fulfill its clients' funding needs after troubles in regional banks sent its stock spiraling. "As of this morning, cash reserves exceed $25 billion and are growing, while deposit outflows have been moderate. Including accounts eligible for pass-through insurance, insured deposits exceed 50% of total deposits," CEO Kenneth Vecchione said in a statement. Shares of the bank fell 60% Monday morning, reaching a new 52-week low. The stock was one of several regional bank stocks that moved in and out of trading halts as Wall Street grappled with the collapse of Silicon Valley Bank and Signature Bank. Banking stocks remained down Monday, even as markets managed to reverse their earlier losses. First Republic Bank shares plunged by about 66% in trading on Monday despite the regional lender announcing steps to shore up its finances. Shares of other regional banks and financial firms are also stumbling, signaling continued nervousness among investors even after federal regulators stepped in late Sunday to protect depositors at Silicon Valley Bank, which failed Friday, and Signature Bank, which was shut down on Sunday. Charles Schwab was down more than 11% on Monday afternoon after recovering from a 23% drop earlier in the day — its largest daily decline on record. The drop came even as Schwab executives worked to assure customers that the bank is stable. “We have access to significant liquidity, including an estimated $100 billion of cash flow from cash on hand, portfolio-related cash flows, and net new assets we anticipate realizing over the next twelve months,” said chief financial officer Peter Crawford in a monthly activity statement. San Francisco-based First Republic, meanwhile, announced fresh funding from the Federal Reserve and JPMorgan Chase on Sunday to strengthen its balance sheet. The moves mean First Republic now has $70 billion in unused liquidity — firepower it can use to respond to potential customer withdrawals. “First Republic’s capital and liquidity positions are very strong, and its capital remains well above the regulatory threshold for well-capitalized banks,” Jim Herbert, First Republic’s founder and executive chairman, and CEO Mike Roffler said in a statement. The lender reached out to customers over the weekend in a bid to reassure them. “In light of recent industry events, the last few days have caused uncertainty in the financial markets,” First Republic senior executives said in an email to clients viewed by CNN. “We want to take a moment to reinforce the safety and stability of First Republic, reflected in the continued strength of our capital, liquidity and operations.” Etsy, a hugely popular online marketplace for artisans to list and sell handmade items, told CNN Business it experienced a delay in issuing payments to some sellers because of the unexpected collapse of Silicon Valley Bank.  "We understand how important it is for these small businesses to be able to receive their funds when they need them. This impacted a small group of sellers, approximately 0.5% of our active seller base," an Etsy spokesperson said in an email to CNN Business on Monday.  Etsy Marketplace, which has 5.4 million global sellers worldwide, has accounts with multiple banks. It said its account SVB held a a low single-digit percentage of its total cash. The company said it has started processing payments via another payment partner on Monday. Senate Republicans are currently receiving a briefing from the Treasury Department on the collapse of Silicon Valley Bank, Sen. Tim Scott's spokesperson told CNN. Scott is on the Senate Banking Committee. The briefing comes after several Republicans on the committee were not included on invitations for an all-member briefing by the Treasury last night. Some of those members were able to join the briefing very late after flagging the issue to the Treasury, but this briefing today is intended to keep members across the aisle in the loop. The Biden administration scrambled this weekend to restore confidence in the US banking system after the collapse of Silicon Valley Bank and Signature Bank. But investors signaled in Monday trading that the plan wasn't enough. Stocks of regional banks tumbled to record lows in Monday trading and were in and out of trading halts as their share prices moved remained volatile. Shares of First Republic fell nearly 66% Monday afternoon. Shares of Western Alliance Bancorp plummeted about 60%. PacWest Bancorp fell more than 34%. First Horizon stock fell about 23%. So what explains the post-backstop plan plunge? Wall Street remains worried that the Federal Reserve's aggressive interest rate hikes will continue to roil regional banks. Markets are anxious to know "whether the Fed will lift rates at all, or will they announce a pause in the monthly Quantitative Tightening program. Or both," said Quincy Krosby, chief global strategist for LPL Financial. It will be difficult to get an answer. The Fed just entered its mandated quiet period ahead of its policy meeting next week. JPMorgan's David Kelly said in a note Monday morning that the Biden administration's plan may help a bit, but markets won't be satisfied until the Fed makes a decision around interest rates. "These actions may be sufficient to stem some of the current turmoil in global markets emanating from smaller US banks," he said. "However, it should be noted that these problems were largely set up by over-easy Fed policy for many years and are now being triggered by excessive tightening." Back when interest rates were near zero, US banks scooped up lots of Treasuries and bonds. Now, as the Fed hikes rates to fight inflation, those bonds have declined in value. When interest rates rise, newly issued bonds start paying higher rates to investors, which makes the older bonds with lower rates less attractive and less valuable. The result is that US banks now have a large amount of unrealized losses on their books and may lack liquidity. Treasury yields, meanwhile, have receded to historic lows — 2-year notes have fallen more than 100 points since Wednesday and are on track to notch their largest three-day drop since Black Monday in October 1987 — as Wall Street worries about about the economic and market fallout of the bank failures. "The move into the Treasury market reflects concern that the administration's attempts to calm investor anxiety won't work, and that ensuing panic and fear could quickly lead to the dreaded "contagion" that envelops the market's psyche," said Krosby. ##Stocks## If the US government had not intervened with the steps they did, a Seattle-based startup called Shelf Engine that had all its money stored at Silicon Valley Bank would have shut down, says its co-founder and CEO Stefan Kalb. The initial FDIC-insured "$250,000 would have been nice to have starting today," he told CNN. "However, for us that means we would have to shut down by the end of the week. And the reason that's the case is because we would have made payroll, and that doesn't even really cover the full payroll for us." The hours since Thursday afternoon had been stressful, he said, recounting the notes he got from colleagues and investors, urging him to pull money out of SVB. When he opened another account and tried to wire all his money, it wasn't honored, and that's when he said he knew he was stuck. "As a co-founder and CEO, I'm personally liable for that payroll. Which means that if I would have let our team work past Friday, I would have had to somehow cover that personally, and I just could not let that happen," he told CNN. He listed a few reasons for why he put all of the startup's money at Silicon Valley Bank: This is the part of the agreement with Silicon Valley Bank: "When you borrow from the bank, they say, 'hey that is fine, but you need to put all of your assets in the bank,'" Kalb explained. A week ago, the bank was "the gold standard," he added: "We were expecting Silicon Valley Bank to be around, and we thought that it was the safest place to put our cash. So we didn't really think twice about it," he said, adding that the company's strategy has changed "dramatically" as the events have unfolded. Finally, he said he was "quite relieved" after hearing from President Joe Biden on the administration's actions after the collapse. "I think this administration has taken this on exactly the way the way I it should be. That is the depositors of the bank need to be made whole. This a cornerstone of the US economy." US stocks rose Monday, reversing earlier losses as investors grew their bets that the Federal Reserve will pull back on its aggressive rate-hiking campaign due to issues brewing among regional banks. By mid-morning, the Dow was up 0.5%. The S&P 500 and Nasdaq gained 0.6% and 1.17%, respectively. The CME FedWatch Tool showed a possibility of around 36% that the central bank would not raise its benchmark lending rate at its upcoming meeting, and a roughly 64% possibility of a quarter-point increase. The figures have remained volatile as investors mull over the financial crises at US regional banks and the government's effort to contain them. The Biden administration said that it will backfill customers' deposits at the collapsed Silicon Valley Bank and Signature Bank, assuaging fears that American taxpayer dollars would be used. The Securities and Exchange Commission said it's on the watch for misconduct that could further disrupt the market. Bank stocks continued their slide despite the market's newfound strength. Switzerland’s financial regulator Finma said Monday it is on alert for any signs of potential fallout for the country’s banks and insurers following the collapse of Silicon Valley Bank and Signature Bank. “As is customary in such incidents, Finma is evaluating the direct and indirect exposure of the banks and insurance companies it supervises to the institutions concerned,” it said in a statement. “The aim is to identify any cluster risks and potential for contagion at an early stage.” Finma also said it was monitoring the collapse of crypto-focused lender Silvergate, which entered liquidation voluntarily on Wednesday. Silvergate said it would repay all deposits before winding down operations. Shares in Swiss lenders slid Monday, tracking losses in the sector globally. Embattled Credit Suisse tumbled nearly 13% to a new record low. Shares of its bigger Swiss rival, UBS, fell 8%. The cost of buying insurance against the risk of Credit Suisse defaulting on its debt rose to an all-time high, while the price of some of its bonds fell sharply, according to Reuters. Credit Suisse, once a big player on Wall Street, has been hit by a series of missteps and compliance failures over the past few years that have damaged its reputation and profit. The bank posted its biggest annual loss in 2022 since the financial crisis in 2008, as customers withdrew 111 billion Swiss francs ($121 billion) in the three months to December. Americans are expecting relief from high inflation within the next year, according to Federal Reserve Bank of New York survey data released Monday. One-year inflation expectations dropped sharply in February to levels not seen since May 2021, tumbling 0.8 percentage points to 4.23%. Consumers indicated they expect to get some relief in how much they pay for food, rent, medical care and gas, according to the New York Fed's Survey of Consumer Expectations. However, those surveyed said they expect median home prices to rise 1.4%. Measurements of inflation expectations are closely watched by Fed officials as they seek to bring down the highest inflation seen in decades. On the three- and five-year horizons, inflation expectations held mostly steady: Median expectations for inflation three years from now ticked down 0.5 percentage points to 2.66% and increased by 0.1 percentage points to 2.6%. What's desired is for expectations to be "anchored" at roughly 2%, which is the Fed's target rate. If inflation expectations run high, then there is a concern that could cause workers to demand pay raises to counter their lost purchasing power, and the fear would be that business raise prices in turn and ultimately push up inflation.   Consumers are still expecting to see a strong job market over the next 12 months: Year-ahead earnings growth expectations held firm at 3% and unemployment expectations fell by 1.8 percentage points. Still, consumers are also expecting to pull back on how much more they're spending. Household spending growth expectations fell to 5.6% last month, marking the fourth consecutive decline.  After the panic that caused the collapse of Silicon Valley Bank, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) says it’s on high alert for any potential misconduct that threatens market stability.  "In times of increased volatility and uncertainty, we at the SEC are particularly focused on monitoring for market stability and identifying and prosecuting any form of misconduct that might threaten investors, capital formation, or the markets more broadly,” SEC Chair Gary Gensler said in a statement.   The warning follows a bank run at SVB, where panicked customers pulled $42 billion on Thursday alone.  “Without speaking to any individual entity or person, we will investigate and bring enforcement actions if we find violations of the federal securities laws,” Gensler said.  New York Gov. Kathy Hochul said Monday that she pushed the federal government to offer the same protections to Signature Bank’s depositors as Silicon Valley Bank’s. The New York State Department of Financial Services closed Signature Bank on Sunday night and appointed the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) as a receiver, according to a press release from the FDIC Sunday. All depositors of the institution will be made whole, the press 