Lauren Mensch is an executive producer for CNN's flagship morning show CNN This Morning with Don Lemon, Poppy Harlow, and Kaitlan Collins. Mensch serves as the showrunner for CNN This Morning, overseeing and managing the editorial direction, production, and execution of the show every weekday morning from 6-9am ET. Previously at CNN, Mensch was the executive producer of CNN Newsroom with Alisyn Camerota and Victor Blackwell, leading a team of producers, bookers, and writers based in New York and Atlanta. She has led coverage of some of the biggest stories of the past decade, including the Russian invasion of Ukraine, the COVID-19 pandemic, the aftermath of the January 6th insurrection, mass shootings in Uvalde and Parkland, high-profile court cases and more. Additionally, Mensch was the executive producer of the Emmy-nominated CNN/Sesame Street Town Halls, aimed at helping kids and families understand complicated news event including the COVID-19 pandemic, vaccinations, and race protests. She also executive produced CNN's weekly primetime shows The Van Jones Show and The Axe Files, overseeing interviews with high profile newsmakers including Kamala Harris, Oprah Winfrey, Jay-Z, Tom Hanks, Condoleezza Rice, and others. She has also executive produced several CNN Special Reports, as well as in-person and virtual events for CITIZEN by CNN, the network's civic engagement platform. Mensch joined CNN in 2013 as a senior broadcast producer for New Day, helping develop and launch the network's morning show. Prior to CNN, Mensch was a producer for the Emmy-nominated, nationally syndicated talk show Anderson Live. She began her career at Inside Edition, where she was a producer covering a wide range of breaking news, human interest, and entertainment stories. Mensch graduated Magna cum Laude from University of Pennsylvania with a degree in Communications, and received her master's degree in Broadcast Journalism from Northwestern University's prestigious Medill School of Journalism.