The cast and crew of "Everything Everywhere All at Once" accepts the Academy Award for best picture on Sunday, March 12. Michelle Yeoh, star of "Everything Everywhere All at Once," accepts the Oscar for best actress. "Ladies, don't let anybody tell you you are ever past your prime," the 60-year-old actress said. "Never give up." Brendan Fraser, star of "The Whale," gives a speech after winning best actor. He thanked his fellow nominees, saying, "It is an honor to be named beside you in this category." A$AP Rocky puts his hand on Rihanna's belly backstage. The two are expecting their second child together. Daniel Scheinert, left, celebrates with Yeoh after he and Daniel Kwan, bottom, won the Oscar for best director ("Everything Everywhere All at Once"). Oscar statuettes are seen backstage. Kwan, left, and Scheinert have fun with some of their Oscars as they meet with the press. Rihanna performs "Lift Me Up," her Oscar-nominated song from "Black Panther: Wakanda Forever." Dwayne Johnson sits on Emily Blunt's lap backstage. The two presented an award together during the show. Scheinert, left, and Kwan also won the Oscar for best original screenplay. Host Jimmy Kimmel reads something backstage during the show. Elizabeth Banks does an on-stage bit with a "cocaine bear." Mindy Kaling and John Cho present the Oscar for best original score. Chandrabose, left, and M.M. Keeravaani accept the Oscar for best original song ("Naatu Naatu" from the film "RRR"). Keeravaani wrote the music, while Chandrabose wrote the lyrics. "I grew up listening to The Carpenters and now here I am with the Oscars," Keeravaani said before going on to sing his speech to the tune of "Top of the World" by The Carpenters. "Naatu Naatu" is the first song from an Indian film to be nominated for an Oscar. Yulia Navalny, wife of Russian opposition leader Alexey Navalny, hugs filmmaker Daniel Roher after "Navalny" won the Oscar for best documentary feature. Lady Gaga speaks about her Oscar-nominated song "Hold My Hand" before performing it. Kimmel holds a microphone on stage. He also hosted the show in 2017 and 2018. Ross White, Seamus O'Hara, Tom Berkeley and James Martin share an emotional moment backstage after "The Irish Goodbye" won the Oscar for best live action short film. Martin, right, received an unexpected surprise during the acceptance speech. His co-stars told the audience that they wanted to sing him "Happy Birthday," and they did. The audience sang along. Actor Ke Huy Quan is seen on a monitor backstage. Dancers perform "Naatu Naatu" from the film "RRR." Ruth Carter accepts the Oscar for best costume design. She won for her work in "Black Panther: Wakanda Forever." Her win put her in esteemed company. Only four other Black Oscar winners have earned multiple statuettes in competitive categories: actors Denzel Washington and Mahershala Ali and sound mixers Willie D. Burton and Russell Williams II. Stephanie Hsu and David Byrne perform the Oscar-nominated song "This Is a Life" from "Everything Everywhere All at Once." Jenny, the donkey from "Banshees of Inisherin," is walked on stage by Kimmel. Kimmel said Jenny was a "certified emotional support donkey" — or at least that's what they told the airline, he said, to get Jenny to Los Angeles for the awards show. "All Quiet on the Western Front" director Edward Berger accepts the Oscar for best international feature film. Quan kisses Jamie Lee Curtis backstage. Both won supporting actor Oscars for their roles in "Everything Everywhere All at Once." Yulia Navalny speaks to the audience after "Navalny" won the Oscar for best documentary feature. She said her husband "is in prison just for telling the truth" and "defending democracy." The CNN film follows the Russian opposition leader through his political rise, attempted assassination and search to uncover the truth. Kimmel appears on screen at the Dolby Theatre. Curtis reacts after winning the Oscar for best supporting actress. She appeared to be truly surprised upon hearing her name, yelling "shut up" from her seat when she was announced. Sofia Carson sings the Oscar-nominated song "Applause" from "Tell It Like a Woman." Diane Warren is playing the piano. Quan gives a speech after winning the Oscar for best supporting actor. Quan, who won for his role in "Everything Everywhere All at Once," addressed his 84-year-old mother in his tearful speech: "Mom, I just won an Oscar!" Kimmel gets danced off the stage after his opening monologue. Lady Gaga looks back at a photographer who fell on the champagne-colored red carpet before the show. The singer went back to help the man up. Hsu and Yeoh meet on the red carpet. Both star in "Everything Everywhere All at Once." Puppets from "Guillermo del Toro's Pinocchio" are displayed at the Dolby Theatre. The film later won the Oscar for best animated feature. Ariana DeBose poses for fan photos on the red carpet. Cate Blanchett laughs while walking the red carpet. Rihanna poses for photos. The singer recently performed at the Super Bowl halftime show.