Stocks plunged lower on Friday after the sudden collapse of a top 20 bank, SVB, sent investors into a tizzy. Wall Street's fear gauge, the VIX, jumped 15% on Friday afternoon as investors rushed to safe havens to avoid being pulled into any banking sector contagion. While shares of larger banks stabilized Friday after falling late on Thursday, smaller banks continued to suffer. An exchange-traded fund tracking regional banks, the SPDR S&P Regional Banking ETF, was down 4.4%. The selloff sent the S&P 500 nearly negative for the year, erasing almost all previous gains. Treasury yields, meanwhile, saw their largest decline since 2008, when Lehman Brothers collapsed, as investors flocked into bonds and away from the stock market. The collapse of SVB upstaged what looked set to be the biggest news of the day — the February jobs report. Yet traders weren't even sure how to process the "Goldilocks" data, which showed overly hot hiring at 311,000 jobs added, but respectable wage growth of 0.2% last month. The Dow fell by 345 points, or 1.1% on Friday. The S&P 500 dropped 1.5% and the Nasdaq Composite was 1.8% lower. For the week, The Dow fell by 4.4%, its worst week since June. The S&P 500 was down 4.6% and the Nasdaq was 4.7% lower.  Depositors in Silicon Valley Bank were in such a rush to withdraw their money, federal regulators had to stage an unusual takeover — showing up at the bank's offices first thing Friday morning, rather than waiting until the market close. "SVB’s condition deteriorated so quickly that it couldn’t last just five more hours," wrote Better Markets CEO Dennis M. Kelleher. "That’s because its depositors were withdrawing their money so fast that the bank was insolvent, and an intraday closure was unavoidable due to a classic bank run." Since the financial crisis, the FDIC has preferred to seize banks on Friday after the markets close, analysts from investment group TD Cowen wrote. Another reason for the mid-morning takeover may be because of "the small share of fully insured accounts made selling the bank difficult. We believe the regulators wanted to prevent further withdrawals by those with amounts exceeding the FDIC insurance cap of $250,000." Silicon Valley Bank's decline stems partly from the Federal Reserve's aggressive interest rate hikes over the past year. After years of interest rates hovering near zero, the central bank last spring began a series of historic rate hikes to make borrowing for businesses and individuals more expensive — a way to cool the economy and bring inflation in line. Higher rates hit tech especially hard, undercutting the value of tech stocks and making it tough to raise funds, Moody's chief economist Mark Zandi said. That prompted many tech firms to draw down the deposits they held at SVB to fund their operations. "Higher rates have also lowered the value of their treasury and other securities which SVB needed to pay depositors," Zandi said. "All of this set off the run on their deposits that forced the FDIC to takeover SVB."  The collapse of Silicon Valley Bank marks the second largest shutdown of a bank in US history, according to the FDIC. Silicon Valley Bank had $209 billion in total assets at the end of last year. The last time a bank was shut down with that many assets was Washington Mutual, which collapsed in September 2008 in the biggest bank failure in history, according to the FDIC. After a flurry of failures during the global financial crisis, major bank failures became relatively uncommon for years. Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen huddled with financial regulators on Friday to discuss the sudden collapse of tech lender Silicon Valley Bank. Yellen, who chairs the Financial Stability Oversight Council, met with leaders from the Federal Reserve, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency to “discuss developments around Silicon Valley Bank,” according to a readout from the Treasury Department. “Secretary Yellen expressed full confidence in banking regulators to take appropriate actions in response and noted that the banking system remains resilient and regulators have effective tools to address this type of event,” Treasury said. The collapse of Silicon Valley Bank marks the largest shutdown of a US bank since 2008 during the Great Recession. Silicon Valley Bank had $209 billion in total assets at the end of last year, according to the FDIC. The last time a bank was shut down with that many assets was Washington Mutual, which collapsed in September 2008, according to FDIC data. After a flurry of failures during the global financial crisis, major bank failures became relatively uncommon for years.  Silicon Valley Bank, a tech lender facing sudden financial trouble, was shut down on Friday, marking a swift downfall for a major bank.  The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation said in a statement that Silicon Valley Bank was closed by California regulators, which appointed the FDIC as receiver. Silicon Valley Bank had about $209 billion in total assets and $175 billion in total deposits as of the end of last year, according to the FDIC.  The FDIC said all insured depositors will have “full access” to their insured deposits by no later than Monday morning. The FDIC added it will pay uninsured depositors an “advance dividend within the next week” and they will receive a receivership certificate for the remaining amount of their uninsured funds. To protect depositors, the FDIC said it created the Deposit Insurance National Bank of Santa Clara, which will hold all insured deposits of Silicon Valley National Bank. The FDIC urged customers with accounts in excess of $250,000 to contact the FDIC.  All three major indexes tumbled Friday after digesting a mixed jobs report and volatility in banking shares after the collapse of Santa Clara, California-based tech lender SVB. The Dow fell 72 points, or 0.2%. The S&P 500 fell by 0.4% and the Nasdaq slipped 0.5% in morning trading. Hiring slowed to 311,000 jobs in February, according to the Labor Department. While that's a cooldown from January's red-hot numbers, it shows that the labor market remains robust — meaning a larger-than-expected rate hike at the Federal Reserve's next meeting isn't off the table. At the same time, bank stocks teetered on Friday after SVB was put into receivership in the wake of falling deposits. "The idea that a large regional bank with deep roots in a very key sector of the economy ... could just sort of all of a sudden, out of the blue, reveal billions of dollars of problems, really raises the question of banking contagion, and that's a really scary scenario for financial markets. And so you're going to get mood swings," said Steve Sosnick, chief strategist at Interactive Brokers. President Joe Biden touted the February jobs report late Friday morning, saying it was proof "our economic plan is working." In remarks from the White House, Biden was flanked by his top two economic advisers, Cecilia Rouse of the Council of Economic Advisers and, for the first time, Lael Brainard, former Federal Reserve Vice Chair, in her new role as head of the National Economic Council. The president nodded toward Tuesday's upcoming inflation report as another economic metric that would show progress. Biden predicted that next week's Consumer Price Index inflation report will be "in solid shape." January's CPI report showed monthly prices rose by the most in three months. However, the same report also showed that inflation continued to slow on a year-over-year basis and hit 6.4%, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. That’s down from December’s 6.5% but still far from the Federal Reserve's 2% target. In a tweet Friday morning, Biden wrote: "I'm happy to report that our economy added 311,000 jobs last month – that's on top of the more than half a million the month before. And we did it while maintaining the lowest unemployment rate in more than 50 years." However, he noted that the biggest threat to the US economy is not inflation but the debt limit. A breach of the US debt ceiling risks sparking a 2008-style economic catastrophe that wipes out millions of jobs and sets America back for generations, Moody’s Analytics warned on Tuesday. Bank run fears continued on Wall Street following SVB's Thursday announcement that it would sell billions of dollars of assets to cover rapidly declining customer deposits and make its customers whole. Reports that the bank was exploring a sale exacerbated those concerns. Small and regional banks are feeling the brunt of the panic: The SPDR S&P Regional Banking ETF (KRE) was down 4.4% on Friday. Several regional bank stocks swung wildly, leading to temporary pauses in trading as they tripped circuit breakers to prevent stocks from rising or falling too quickly. Many stocks were jerked beyond their price band limits: PacWest Bancorp, Signature Bank, First Republic Bank and Western Alliance were all bouncing in and out of mandatory trading pauses on Friday morning. Signature Bank was down around 15% and First Republic was down 22% when trading of the stocks last resumed. Former Treasury Secretary Larry Summers, meanwhile, told Bloomberg News on Friday that he sees "no systemic risk" from SVB if their depositors were protected. Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen said Friday she’s paying close attention to the financial stress impacting Silicon Valley Bank and other lenders. “You mention Silicon Valley Bank. There are recent developments that concern a few banks that I’m monitoring very carefully,” Yellen told lawmakers in response to a question at a hearing about the company. “When banks experience financial losses, it is and should be a matter of concern,” Yellen said during the House Ways and Means Committee hearing.  SVB Financial Group is reportedly exploring a sale after selling billions of dollars of assets to make its customers whole and sparking a panic on Wall Street this week. Reuters and CNBC, citing people familiar with the matter, reported that the financially strapped bank was considering a potential sale to a larger institution. SVB didn't immediately respond to CNN's request for comment.  Shares of SVB were halted Friday morning after falling more than 60% in premarket trading. The stock tumbled 60% Thursday after the bank said it had to sell a portfolio of US Treasuries and $1.75 billion in shares at a loss to cover rapidly declining customer deposits — essentially facing a run on the bank.  Read more Market participants are betting the Federal Reserve will now approve a quarter-point rate hike at its next policymaking meeting on March 21-22, according to the CME FedWatch tool. That's a reversal from Tuesday, when hawkish comments from Fed Chair Jerome Powell caused expectations to flip, with markets moving to anticipate a half-point rate hike over the quarter-point that had been priced in for the past few weeks. Attention now turns to next week's inflation reports, with the Consumer Price Index due on Tuesday morning and the Producer Price Index on Wednesday. These are the last pieces of major economic data that Fed officials will review before their two-day meeting. "To be sure, next week's CPI and PPI reports, should they come in hotter than expected, could push the 50 basis point [half point] bet higher, but this morning's print gives the Fed breathing room," said Quincy Krosby, chief global strategist at LPL Financial. Investors were mostly reacting to a less-than-scorching jobs number and slowing wage growth, which offered hope that overall inflation may be decelerating. The Treasury Department told CNN on Friday it’s monitoring the situation as financial pressure at the parent of Silicon Valley Bank raise concerns about the broader health of America’s banks. “Treasury is aware of recent developments. The Department will remain in touch with regulators as appropriate,” a Treasury spokesperson said in a statement. The Federal Reserve declined to comment. Shares of SVB Financial Group were halted Friday morning pending news. The lender, which caters to tech start-ups, saw its share price plummet by 60% on Thursday after revealing plans to rapidly raise cash to shore up its balance sheet. Billionaire investor Bill Ackman on Thursday urged the government to consider intervening to protect SVB’s customers. “The risk of failure and deposit losses here is that the next, least well-capitalized bank faces a run and fails and the dominoes continue to fall,” Ackman said in a tweet. Neither Treasury nor the Fed commented on whether the federal government is considering an intervention. Worries about SVB helped drive down US stocks on Friday, with the banking sector suffering its worst day in nearly three years. Crypto-focused lender Silvergate collapsed earlier this week, announcing plans to wind down operations and liquidate.  US markets were lower on Friday morning after February's jobs report showed signs of easing inflation. Payrolls increased last month by 311,000 jobs, blowing past Wall Street's expectations of 205,000 jobs added, but investors found hope in smaller-than-expected wage gains. Slowing wage increases could be a sign of cooling inflation and may alleviate some pressure on the Federal Reserve to aggressively hike interest rates at its policy meeting later this month. Traders are now pricing in a 50% chance that the Fed will raise interest rates by a hefty half point at its next meeting, down from nearly 80% on Wednesday. Treasury yields, which typically move in the opposite direction of stocks, also dropped following the release of the jobs report. Still, Wall Street was in panic mode after tech lender SVB Financial Group announced on Thursday that it needed to sell billions of dollars of assets to make its customers whole. Fear of a bank run sent shares of SVB plunging 60% on Thursday, trading was halted on Friday morning pending news. That plunge spilled over into the rest of the banking industry as investors worried about larger risks in the sector. US bank stocks logged the largest declines in nearly three years on Thursday, and continued to fall on Friday. Shares of JPMorgan Chase were down about 0.7% on Friday while shares of Citigroup fell by 1.5%. Wells Fargo was down 2.1% and Bank of America dropped by 3.9%. The Dow was down 87 points, or 0.3%, on Friday morning. The S&P 500 fell by 0.4%. The Nasdaq Composite was 0.5% lower. SVB Financial Group’s announcement that it needed to sell billions of dollars of assets to make its customers whole continued to send Wall Street into panic mode. Shares of SVB (SIVB) were halted Friday morning after falling more than 60% in premarket trading. The stock tumbled 60% Thursday. SVB, a relatively unknown bank outside of Silicon Valley, lends to higher-risk tech startups that are struggling as interest rates rise and venture capital money dries up. The bank partners with nearly half of all venture-backed tech and health care companies in the United States, many of which pulled deposits out of the bank as rising interest rates raised concern that the bank may not be able to get all its customers’ money back if they pulled their deposits en masse. Essentially dealing with a bank run, SVB told investors it had to sell a portfolio of US Treasuries and $1.75 billion in shares at a loss to cover rapidly declining customer deposits. That led Wall Street billionaire hedge fund manager Bill Ackman to compare SVB’s situation to Bear Stearns, the first bank to collapse at the start of the 2007-2008 global financial crisis. Ackman said in a series of tweets that SVB may require a bailout and called on the US government to to step in to protect customers’ deposits and prevent damage to the bank’s tech startup clients. Fear of a bank run sent shares of SVB tumbling again in premarket trading Friday. The stock was halted at 8:35 a.m. ET on Friday pending a news announcement, according to the New York Stock Exchange and Nasdaq. The halt comes as investors await information about the tech-focused lender's efforts to raise capital after it sold part of its portfolio of US Treasuries at a loss to cover a rapid decline in customer deposits. SVB Financial Group, which is partnered with nearly half of all venture-backed tech and health care companies in the United States, saw its stock decline more than 60% on Thursday. Shares were down another 61% in premarket trading Friday prior to the halt. That plunge spilled over into the rest of the banking industry as investors worried about larger risks in the sector. US bank stocks logged the largest declines in nearly three years on Thursday. The KBW Bank Index, which tracks 24 leading US banks, fell 7.7%, its biggest drop in almost three years. Markets in Europe and Asia also tumbled Friday. The US economy added 311,000 jobs in February, according to the Labor Department's closely watched monthly employment snapshot, released Friday. That's a pullback from the blockbuster January jobs report, when a revised 504,000 positions were added, but shows the labor market is still emitting plenty of heat. The unemployment rate ticked up to 3.6% from 3.4%. Economists were expecting a net gain of 205,000 jobs for February and no change in the unemployment rate, according to Refinitiv. "The unemployment rate is up 0.2% to 3.6%, higher than forecast," said Mark Hamrick, senior economic analyst at Bankrate. "Contributing to upward pressure here, there were more people looking for work." Industries with notable job gains included leisure and hospitality, retail trade, government and health care. After being crushed during the pandemic, the leisure and hospitality has been steadily adding back employees and trying to meet increased demand from consumers shifting their spending from goods to services. Average hourly earnings — a closely watched metric as the Federal Reserve seeks to evaluate the impact of rising wages on inflation — grew 0.2% month-on-month and were up 4.6% over the year before. The labor force participation rate increased to 62.5% from 62.4%. The Fed has been battling for almost a year to slow the economy and crush the highest inflation in 40 years, but the labor market continues to defy those efforts. Markets in Europe and Asia tumbled Friday following a sharp selloff in banking stocks in the United States as a major tech lender said it had to sell shares to plug a hole in its finances. SVB Financial Group, which is partnered with nearly half of all venture-backed tech and health care companies in the United States, was forced to raise capital after it sold part of its portfolio of US Treasuries at a loss to cover a rapid decline in customer deposits. Its stock cratered 60% on Thursday, and was down 46.6% in premarket trading on Friday. “Lots of banks hold large portfolios of bonds and rising interest rates make these less valuable — the SVB situation is a reminder that many institutions are sitting on large unrealized losses on their fixed-income holdings,” commented Russ Mould, investment director at UK broker AJ Bell. Europe’s benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 index fell 1.5% in early trading, while London’s bank-heavy FTSE 100 (UKX) index slid 1.8%. The Stoxx Europe 600 Banks index, which tracks 42 big European banks, including those in the United Kingdom, sank by more than 4% Friday morning. Shares in banking giant HSBC (HSBC) tumbled nearly 5% Friday. The shares of Barclays (BCS) were down 3.4%, Deutsche Bank (DB) 7.4% and Italy’s Unicredit (UNCFF)3.6%. In Asia, Hong Kong’s Hang Seng (HSNGY)led losses in the region, sinking 3%, while China’s Shanghai and Korea’s Kospi fell 1.4% and 1% respectively. Asian markets have also been pressured this week because China has failed to announce any major economic stimulus during its National People’s Congress. Meanwhile, Japan’s Nikkei ended Friday down 1.7% as the country’s central bank decided to keep its ultra-low interest rates unchanged. US stocks dipped in pre-market trading. Futures on the benchmark S&P 500 (DVS) index fell 0.43%, while futures on the tech-heavy Nasdaq Composite (COMP) dropped 0.2%. The losses come after US bank stocks logged the largest falls in nearly three years on Thursday. The KBW Bank Index, which tracks 24 leading US banks, fell 7.7%, its biggest drop in almost three years. The selloff is a sharp turnaround for the global banking sector, which, until Thursday, had enjoyed surging stock valuations since last fall. Fear overtook Wall Street Thursday after SVB Financial Group, a bank that lends primarily to tech companies, told investors it had to sell $1.75 billion in shares at a loss in order to cover rapidly declining customer deposits.  That triggered losses across the banking sector and concern that the Federal Reserve's interest rate hikes are preventing banks from raising capital.  Bank stocks fell by their largest levels in nearly three years on Thursday, bringing all three major indexes down with them.  The Dow closed lower by 543 points, or 1.7%. The S&P 500 fell by 1.9% and the Nasdaq Composite was down 2.1%.  Silicon Valley-based SVB notched the largest decline in the sector, down by more than 60%, as CEO Greg Becker said the bank could be dealing with problems for some time to come. Shares of JPMorgan Chase dropped by 5.4%, Bank of America fell 6.2%, Wells Fargo was down 6.2% and Citigroup was 4.1% lower.  When interest rates were near zero, large banks scooped up Treasuries and bonds. Now, as the Federal Reserve hikes rates to fight inflation, those bonds are worth much less and banks are sitting on the losses. For SVB, which said it is partnered with nearly half of all venture-backed tech and health care companies, cash-hungry startups are feeling the pinch. Investors were also rattled ahead of Friday's key employment report from the Labor Department, which they hope will provide some clarity on the Fed's next policy moves.  In January, there were nearly two job openings for each job seeker. The strong labor market means workers are enjoying the best wage growth in years — but that wage growth feeds into inflation. “Let’s not question that it’s unequivocally good to see people with jobs and income,” ADP chief economist Nela Richardson told CNN. “What’s bad is that it’s coming at the cost of inflation.” That’s one reason the Federal Reserve is penciling in a higher jobless rate in the quarters ahead, raising the ire of progressives like Senator Elizabeth Warren who accuses the Fed of trying to weaken the job market to achieve its inflation goals. By the Fed’s own estimate, higher rates could lead to unemployment in the mid 4% range, which would mean 2 million more people out of work. It led to a testy exchange at the Senate Banking Committee hearing this week. “If you could speak directly to the 2 million hardworking people who have decent jobs today, who you’re planning to get fired over the next year – what would you say to them?” Warren asked Powell. “I would explain to them that inflation is very high,” Powell responded. “And it’s hurting the working people of this country badly. All of them, not just 2 million of them. But all of them are suffering from high inflation. And we are taking the only measures we have to bring inflation down.” Essentially, the Fed thinks the needs of the many (keeping inflation in check for hundreds of millions of working people) outweigh the needs of the relatively few (the single-digit millions who may lose their jobs as the central bank purposefully slows the economy). The next two weeks will serve as a crucial test on how much more medicine the economy needs. Friday’s jobs report, Tuesday’s CPI inflation report, Wednesday’s PPI inflation and retail sales reports, Thursday’s housing report, next Friday’s consumer sentiment report and the following Tuesday’s existing home sales will give the Fed a lot to think about ahead of its rate decision on March 22. January's blowout jobs number of 517,000 came in a month that is typically unique when it comes to labor market data due to seasonality factors and data adjustments. Here's what's going on: Seasonal adjustments are made to help smooth out predictable periodic swings (such as holiday season hiring) to help better compare data and trends on an ongoing basis. January's report was also influenced by the Bureau of Labor Statistics' annual benchmarking process to account for more current population and employment data. Seasonality, benchmarking and the interplay of pandemic-era data don't completely explain away January's blockbuster jobs report, economists say, noting there are likely influences from the currently tight labor market. "People didn't actually lay off the people they usually do in January," KPMG economist Diane Swonk told CNN. "January is the biggest layoff month, across the board, of any month out there; but even companies that saw demand waning a bit held on to workers."  On an unadjusted basis, there was a 2.5 million decline in payrolls during January, BLS data shows. That's the smallest unadjusted total for any January since 1995. Unseasonably warm weather also likely played a role and could very well lead to a balmier-than-expected February jobs report, said Joe Brusuelas, chief economist at RSM, in a note this week.  Weather can cause fluctuations in employment, especially in industries such as construction, mining and natural resources, and leisure and hospitality, according to research from San Francisco Federal Reserve economists. Warm and sunny weather typically has a positive effect on employment.  "Even if there is a healthy downward revision to the January estimate, it will require another month at least for the noise in the data to be corrected and the true pace of hiring to be understood," said Brusuelas. Economists estimate that the US economy added 205,000 jobs in February, according to Refinitiv, with an unemployment rate holding steady at 3.4%. Despite widely publicized layoffs from tech giants, media companies and the financial sector in recent months, the US labor market remains robust after eight rate hikes meant to cool the economy. In testimony before Congress this week, Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell reiterated that the central bank will continue to hike its benchmark interest rate as long as necessary to tamp down historic inflation. While the central bank's actions so far have slowed business investment and flash-frozen parts of the housing market, it has not crushed America's white-hot jobs market. "I think anything in excess of 230,000 to 250,000 job gains is going to be interpreted as a sign that the labor market is a lot more immune to higher lending costs than anyone anticipated," Aaron Terrazas, Glassdoor's chief economist, told CNN. And that would mean higher interest rates are sure to follow, he added. The Federal Reserve is keeping close watch on the dynamics within the US labor market as the central bank tries to rein in high inflation. While not the initial cause of this bout of inflation, the tight labor market has spurred concern among Fed officials that there’s an imbalance in wage negotiating that could put upward pressure on inflation.