Here's a look at some recent cases of foreign governments detaining US citizens. For information about missing Americans, see Robert Levinson Fast Facts or POW/MIA in Iraq and Afghanistan Fast Facts. Currently Detained Americans China Kai Li September 2016 - Kai Li, a naturalized US citizen born in China, is detained while visiting relatives in Shanghai. July 2018 - He is sentenced to 10 years in prison for espionage following a secret trial held in August 2017. Iran Baquer and Siamak Namazi October 2015 - Siamak Namazi, a Dubai-based businessman with dual US and Iranian citizenship, is detained while visiting relatives in Tehran. February 2016 - Baquer Namazi, a former UNICEF official and father of Siamak Namazi, is detained, his wife Effie Namazi says on Facebook. He is an Iranian-American. October 2016 - The men are sentenced to 10 years in prison and fined $4.8 million, according to Iran's official news channel IRINN. Iran officials say five people were convicted and sentenced for "cooperating with Iran's enemies," a government euphemism that usually implies cooperating with the United States. January 28, 2018 - Baquer Namazi is granted a four-day leave by the Iranian government, after being discharged from an Iranian hospital. Namazi's family say the 81-year-old was rushed to the hospital on January 15 after a severe drop in his blood pressure, an irregular heartbeat and serious depletion of energy. This was the fourth time Namazi had been transferred to a hospital in the last year. In September, he underwent emergency heart surgery to install a pacemaker. February 2018 - Baquer Namazi is released on temporary medical furlough. February 2020 - Iran's Revolutionary Court commutes Baquer Namazi's sentence to time served and the travel ban on him is lifted. May 2020 - According to the family, Iran's Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) places a new travel ban on Baquer Namazi, preventing him from leaving the country. October 26, 2021 - Baquer Namazi undergoes surgery to clear a "life-threatening blockage in one of the main arteries to his brain, which was discovered late last month," his lawyer says in a statement. October 1, 2022 - Baquer Namazi is released from detention and is permitted to leave Iran "to seek medical treatment abroad," according to a statement from UN Secretary General spokesperson Stéphane Dujarric. March 9, 2023 - Siamak Namazi makes a plea to President Joe Biden to put the "liberty of innocent Americans above politics" and ramp up efforts to secure his release, in an interview with CNN from inside Iran's Evin prison. Karan Vafadari December 2016 - Karan Vafadari's family announces that Karan and his wife, Afarin Niasari, were detained at Tehran airport in July. Vafadari, an Iranian-American, and Niasari, a green-card holder, ran an art gallery in Tehran. March 2017 - New charges of "attempting to overthrow the Islamic Republic and recruiting spies through foreign embassies" are brought against Vafadari and Niasari. January 2018 - Vafadari is sentenced to 27 years in prison. Niasari is sentenced to 16 years. July 2018 - Vafadari and Niasari are reportedly released from prison on bail while they await their appeals court rulings. Russia Paul Whelan December 28, 2018 - Paul Whelan, from Michigan, a retired Marine and corporate security director, is arrested on accusations of spying. His family says he was in Moscow to attend a wedding. January 3, 2019 - His lawyer, Vladimir Zherebenkov, tells CNN Whalen has been formally charged with espionage. January 22, 2019 - At his pretrial hearing, Whelan is denied bail. Whelan's attorney Zherebenkov tells CNN that Whelan was found in possession of classified material when he was arrested in Moscow. June 15, 2020 - Whelan is convicted of espionage and sentenced to 16 years in prison. August 8, 2021 - State news agency TASS reports that Whelan has been released from solitary confinement in the Mordovian penal colony where he is being held. Saudi Arabia Walid Fitaihi November 2017 - Dual US-Saudi citizen Dr. Walid Fitaihi is detained at the Ritz Carlton hotel in Riyadh along with other prominent Saudis, according to his lawyer Howard Cooper. Fitaihi is then transferred to prison. July 2019 - Fitaihi is released on bond. December 8, 2020 - Fitaihi is sentenced to six years in prison for charges including obtaining US citizenship without permission. January 14, 2021 - A Saudi appeals court upholds Fitaihi's conviction but reduces his sentence to 3.2 years and suspends his remaining prison term. Fitaihi still faces a travel ban and frozen assets. Syria Austin Tice August 2012 - Tice disappears while reporting near the Syrian capital of Damascus. The Syrian government has never acknowledged that they have Tice in their custody. September 2012 - A 43-second video emerges online that shows Tice in the captivity of what his family describe as an "unusual group of apparent jihadists." Majd Kamalmaz February 2017 - Kamalmaz is detained at a checkpoint in Damascus. The Syrian government has never acknowledged Kamalmaz is in its custody. Venezuela Airan Berry and Luke Denman May 4, 2020 - Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro says two American "mercenaries" have been apprehended after a failed coup attempt to capture and remove him. Madura identifies the captured Americans as Luke Denman, 34, and Airan Berry, 41. On state television, Maduro brandishes what he claims are the US passports and driver's licenses of the two men, along with what he says are their ID cards for Silvercorp, a Florida-based security services company. May 5, 2020 - Denman appears on Venezuelan state TV. He is shown looking directly at the camera recounting his role in "helping Venezuelans take back control of their country." August 7, 2020 - Prosecutors announce that Berry and Denman have been sentenced to 20 years in prison. Formerly Detained Americans Cuba Alan Gross December 2009 - Alan Gross is jailed while working as a subcontractor on a US Agency for International Development project aimed at spreading democracy. His actions are deemed illegal by Cuban authorities. He is accused of trying to set up illegal internet connections on the island. Gross says he was trying to help connect the Jewish community to the internet and was not a threat to the government. March 12, 2011 - Gross is found guilty and sentenced to 15 years in prison for crimes against the Cuban state. April 11, 2014 - Ends a hunger strike that he launched the previous week in an effort to get the United States and Cuba to resolve his case. December 17, 2014 - Gross is released as part of a deal with Cuba that paves the way for a major overhaul in US policy toward the island. Egypt 16 American NGO Employees December 2011 - Egyptian authorities carry out 17 raids on the offices of 10 nongovernmental organizations. The Egyptian general prosecutor's office claims the raids were part of an investigation into allegations the groups had received illegal foreign financing and were operating without a proper license. February 5, 2012 - Forty-three people face prosecution in an Egyptian criminal court on charges of illegal foreign funding as part of an ongoing crackdown on NGOs. Among the American defendants is Sam LaHood, International Republican Institute country director and the son of US Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood. February 15, 2012 - The US State Department confirms there are 16 Americans being held, not 19 as the Egyptian government announced. February 20, 2012 - South Carolina Senator Lindsey Graham and Arizona Senator John McCain meet with top Egyptian military and political leaders in Cairo. March 1, 2012 - Some of the 43 detainees including American, Norwegian, German, Serbian and Palestinian activists leave Cairo after each post two-million Egyptian pounds bail. April 20, 2012 - CNN is told Egyptian officials have filed global arrest notices with Interpol for some of the Americans involved in the NGO trial. June 4, 2013 - An Egyptian court sentences the NGO workers: 27 workers in absentia to five-year sentences, 11 to one-year suspended jail sentences, and five others to two-year sentences that were not suspended, according to state-run newspaper Al Ahram. Only one American has remained in Egypt to fight the charges, but he also left after the court announced his conviction. Iran Saeed Abedini September 26, 2012 - According to the American Center for Law and Justice, Saeed Abedini, an American Christian pastor who was born in Iran and lives in Idaho, is detained in Iran. The group says that Abedini's charges stem from his conversion to Christianity from Islam 13 years ago and his activities with home churches in Iran. January 2013 - Abedini is sentenced to eight years in prison, on charges of attempting to undermine the Iranian government. January 16, 2016 - Iran releases four US prisoners including Abedini, Amir Mirzaei Hekmati, and Jason Rezaian, in exchange for clemency of seven Iranians imprisoned in the United States for sanctions violations. Amir Mirzaei Hekmati August 2011 - Amir Mirzaei Hekmati travels to Iran to visit relatives and gets detained by authorities, according to his family. His arrest isn't made public for months. December 17, 2011 - Iran's Intelligence Ministry claims to have arrested an Iranian-American working as a CIA agent, according to state-run Press TV. December 18, 2011 - Iran's semi-official Fars news agency broadcasts a video in which a young man says his name is Hekmati, and that he joined the US Marine Corps and worked with Iraqi officers. December 19, 2011 - The US State Department confirms the identity of the man detained in Iran and calls for his immediate release. December 20, 2011 - Hekmati's family says that he was arrested in August while visiting relatives in Iran. The family asserts that they remained quiet about the arrest at the urging of Iranian officials who promised his release. December 27, 2011 - Hekmati's trial begins in Iran. Prosecutors accuse Hekmati of entering Iran with the intention of infiltrating the country's intelligence system in order to accuse Iran of involvement in terrorist activities, according to the Fars news agency. January 9, 2012 - An Iranian news agency reports that Hekmati is convicted of "working for an enemy country," as well as membership in the CIA and "efforts to accuse Iran of involvement in terrorism." He is sentenced to death. March 5, 2012 - An Iranian court dismisses a lower court's death sentence for Hekmati and orders a retrial. He remains in prison. September 2013 - In a letter to US Secretary of State John Kerry, Hekmati says that his confession was obtained under duress. April 11, 2014 - Hekmati's sister tells CNN that Hekmati has been convicted in Iran by a secret court of "practical collaboration with the US government" and sentenced to 10 years in prison. January 16, 2016 - Iran releases four US prisoners i