Our live coverage for the day has ended. Follow the latest Ukraine news here or read through the updates below. FBI Director Christopher Wray spoke at length about the war in Ukraine Wednesday night in front of an audience at Texas A&M University in College Station. He visited the school for an in-depth discussion on the FBI's "involvement in current events and challenges that will face the nation," according to A&M's website. “As I said, the war ain’t going so hot for the Russians. And so, there are a lot of Russians, including Russian intelligence service folks, who aren't too happy,” Wray said. Wray went on to say there are a lot of “unhappy Russians" in the intelligence service that the FBI would like to recruit, but "in a different way." “We want those unhappy Russians to know we'd love to talk to them," Wray told the audience of university students. "And they can maybe, you know, have a role in changing the course of history.” Wray also said while the US is watching and learning from the war, so is China. He said a lesson China may be focused on is "the impact of sanctions on the Russian economy," and accused China's government of "starting to take steps to cushion their economy against potential sanctions." Wray said those actions could serve as a clue to potential future actions against Taiwan.  “If they were to choose, for example, to forcibly try to take over Taiwan, you can expect a whole lot of sanctions coming down,” Wray said. “So the fact that the Chinese are spending this much time cushioning their economy, at least in my world … we call that kind of behavior a clue.” Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov responded to a reporter’s question Wednesday regarding Russia’s relationship with the United States while it continues to supply aid to Ukraine. “We really are in a hot phase of the war, because Ukrainian Nazis are using American weapons, first and foremost. And the American administration keeps threatening to deliver longer-range and more deadly weapons systems," Lavrov said. "But nevertheless, I think we should continue to support our relations and we hope that the Americans will wake up at once and return to the negotiating table. We'll see, we won't have to wait much longer." Some background: Throughout the conflict Russian President Vladimir Putin has continuously framed his invasion of Ukraine – a country with a Jewish president – as a campaign of supposed “denazification,” a description dismissed by historians and political observers alike. Last year, Lavrov – Putin’s top diplomat – sought to justify Moscow’s goal of “de-Nazifying” Ukraine by claiming Adolf Hitler had “Jewish blood” and that “the most ardent anti-Semites are usually Jews.” Poland announced the visit of Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky to Warsaw a few days before his arrival because “we don't feel so afraid of Russians anymore,” a foreign ministry spokesperson said Wednesday.   "It wasn’t easy – and again we are very successful in hiding this information (of senior officials traveling to Warsaw) like we did with (US President Joe) Biden a few weeks ago – but we don't feel so afraid of Russians anymore and we decided to communicate (Zelensky’s visit) two days before to give the Polish people possibility to travel to Warsaw and participate in two leaders' speech,” spokesperson Lukasz Jasina said in an interview with CNN’s Isa Soares.   “It wasn't easy because Warsaw today was blocked much more than during Biden's, Obama's or Trump's visits but it was worth it because there was a symbolism," he added.  Zelensky met with senior Polish officials and signed bilateral agreements on Wednesday during his first official trip to Poland since Russia invaded Ukraine last year.   ##Zelensky Poland Visit## President Volodymyr Zelensky on Wednesday thanked the Polish people for welcoming Ukrainian refugees and aiding his country’s defense against Russia’s invasion. “Every Polish city and town, which became so hospitable to our people, I thank you. I thank you that Ukrainian children could live with respect in Poland,” he said, according to an interpreter. He expressed appreciation that Ukrainians could live as full residents in Poland, thanked Polish volunteers as well as those training the Ukrainian military and thanked everyone who “gives their prayers for Ukrainians.” “Russia will not win against Europe when Ukrainians and the Poles are standing shoulder to shoulder,” he said, according to an interpreter. “We will learn this. And very much like we are standing with you, we will be enjoying our peace together, in everything, in the European Union. Together in NATO. This will be a continuation of our fate of two free nations. Historical understanding between our two nations.” ##Zelensky Poland Visit## Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelensky has traveled to neighboring Poland for an official visit to the country, one of its closest partners. Meantime, Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko is meeting with Russian President Vladimir Putin in Moscow. The leaders discussed weapons in Belarus, Ukraine's neighbor. Lukashenko has also said he intensified talks with Putin about deploying both tactical and strategic — more powerful — nuclear weapons to deal with threats from Ukraine’s Western allies, who he claimed are planning a coup against him. Here's what to know: Belarusian president in Moscow: Lukashenko and Putin began a two-day summit in Moscow discussing weapons in Belarus. Putin said last month that Russia plans to station tactical nuclear weapons in the neighboring country. He said Moscow had already transferred an Iskander short-range missile system, a device that can be fitted with nuclear or conventional warheads, to Belarus. Lukashenko's Ukraine “peace proposal” will also likely be discussed during meetings with Putin, a Kremlin spokesperson said. Zelensky in Poland: Zelenksy is in Poland to sign bilateral agreements and hold an economic forum with Polish President Andrzej Duda. The Polish president said he supports Ukraine's "pursuit of EU and NATO membership" and announced that Poland is delivering four MiG-29s fighter jets to Ukraine, in addition to four it has already given in recent months.  European leaders in Beijing: Meanwhile, French President Emmanuel Macron and European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen are on a three-day visit to Beijing. In a readout, the Elysée Palace said the two heads of state discussed their common desire to engage China to accelerate the end of the war in Ukraine. Macron and von der Leyen will meet with Chinese President Xi Jinping on Thursday. Putin on Russia's global role: Moscow is open to "constructive partnership with all countries" and is not going to isolate itself, Putin said. The Russian president also said Russia has "no bias or hostile intentions towards anyone." NATO: After Finland officially became a member of NATO Tuesday, the chief of the transatlantic military alliance said he is "confident" Sweden will also become a member despite Turkey's current opposition. Finland’s fold into the alliance also reignited calls from Ukraine to join and Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg has indicated that Zelensky has been invited to the alliance’s summit in July. The situation in Bakhmut: Russian forces have made “very slow progress” in Bakhmut over the past six months, despite committing large numbers of soldiers and suffering huge losses, according to Western officials. The Ukrainian military and a soldier near Bakhmut say that heavy battles are raging in the eastern city. Zelensky acknowledged a possible military withdrawal from Bakhmut, but said ammunition deliveries from allies would bolster the defense. The latest on fighting: Ukraine has been carrying out deep strikes and stockpiling some ammunition ahead of an expected counteroffensive in the coming months, Western officials believe. The officials said they also believe Russia has a problem getting people to join the military as well as difficulties in providing them with training.  Detained American reporter: US Secretary of State Antony Blinken urged Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov to release detained Wall Street Journal reporter Evan Gershkovich “immediately.” The Biden administration is preparing to officially declare Gershkovich as wrongfully detained in Russia, two US officials told CNN, a move that will trigger new US government resources to work towards his release, CNN reported earlier. ##Catch Up## ##Zelensky Poland Visit## Polish Agriculture Minister Henryk Kowalczyk resigned from his post Wednesday over what he said was the European Commission’s draft decision to extend duty-free and quota-free imports of grain from Ukraine into member states until June 2024. “Since it is very clear that the basic postulate of farmers will not be met by the European Commission, I have made a decision and resigned from the function of the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development,” Kowalczyk said in a statement.  Farmers in countries neighboring Ukraine, including Poland, have expressed concerns about the effects of increased imports of Ukrainian grain on their grain prices, the European Commission said in a statement in March.  Last week, Polish Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki urged EU leaders to use “all instruments” to “limit the impact" of the influx of Ukrainian grain on the markets of Ukraine's neighboring countries.  In Kowalczyk’s resignation statement, he said that the Polish government — along with those of Slovakia, Romania, Hungary and Bulgaria — had submitted a request on Friday to the European Commission to “activate the protection clause in the field of duty-free and quota-free imports of grain from Ukraine.”  “However, the European Commission has published a draft extension of duty-free and quota-free imports of cereals from Ukraine for another year, which is to apply from June 2023 to June 5, 2024,” he continued.  Last month, the European Commission proposed a support measure worth 56.3 million euros (around $61.3 million) for Bulgarian, Polish and Romanian farmers to compensate them “for the economic loss due to increased imports of cereals and oilseeds.”  Speaking in Warsaw on Wednesday, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said that a solution had been found on “the issue of our farmers.”  “I believe that in the coming days and weeks we will finally resolve all the issues because there can be no questions, no difficulties between such close partners and real friends as Poland and Ukraine," he said.   White House National Security Council Coordinator for Strategic Communications John Kirby responded to Russian President Vladimir Putin’s recent allegation that “Western intelligence services” are involved in “terrorist attacks” carried out within Russia, saying Wednesday that the United States does not “enable or encourage Ukrainians to strike outside of Ukraine.” CNN previously reported that during a meeting of Russia’s Security Council on Wednesday, Putin alleged without evidence that “terrorist attacks are regularly carried out against government officials and law enforcement agencies, journalists, public figures, school and university teachers. … Moreover, neo-Nazis and their accomplices operate not only on the territory of the new subjects of the Federation, but also commit crimes in other regions” – references to the Ukrainian regions Russia claims to have annexed, and the rest of the Russian regions. “There is reason to believe that the potential of third countries of Western intelligence services is involved in the preparation of such sabotage and terrorist attacks,” Putin added.  Vladlen Tatarsky, a pro-Kremlin Russian military blogger, was killed by an explosion at a St. Petersburg café on Sunday. Russia’s National Anti-Terrorism Committee (NAC) said Monday that the explosion that killed him involved agents of the Ukrainian special services and associates of the jailed opposition leader Alexei Navalny. Speaking to reporters Wednesday, Kirby underscored that American intelligence involvement has been aimed at helping Ukrainians defend their territory.  “(F)rom the early days of this war, we have been providing intelligence and information support to the Ukrainian armed forces to enable them to better defend themselves, to conduct operations and to continue to try to claw back territory that the Russians illegally took from them when they invaded – actually, even since 2014. And I won’t get into the details of what that intelligence is or how it’s delivered, but it is very much intended to help … them defend their territory,” Kirby said.  “We do not enable nor do we encourage the Ukrainians to strike outside of Ukraine. And I really just – I’m going to leave it at that,” he added.   Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko and Russian President Vladimir Putin began a two-day summit in Moscow discussing weapons in Belarus, Ukraine's neighbor. “In your office, when we discussed what to do, it turned out that there was an opportunity to work,” Lukashenko said, sitting alongside Putin. “The missiles are flying and military equipment is on the move, so we will overcome everything with a little bit of time.”  Russia plans to station tactical nuclear weapons in neighboring Belarus, Russian President Vladimir Putin said last month. He said Moscow had already transferred an Iskander short-range missile system, a device that can be fitted with nuclear or conventional warheads, to Belarus. “I must say that a lot has been done as a result of our joint work in all areas,” Putin said. “Tomorrow we will discuss all this. This concerns our interaction in the international arena and the joint solution of issues of ensuring the security of our states. I am especially pleased to note the results of our work in the economic sphere.” Lukashenko noted that Russia’s population “feared hunger, cold, and so on,” but that those fears did not come to pass.  “Tomorrow we will sum up what we have done,” Lukashenko said. “We have definitely worked for our paychecks.” CNN's Hira Humayun contributed reporting to this post. Russian President Vladimir Putin, without presenting evidence, accused Western intelligence services of being involved in "terrorist attacks" carried out within Russia. "Terrorist attacks are regularly carried out against government officials and law enforcement agencies, journalists, public figures, school and university teachers," Putin said on Wednesday during a meeting of Russia’s Security Council, adding that "accomplices" also operate in Ukrainian regions claimed to be annexed by Russia. "There is reason to believe that the potential of third countries of Western intelligence services is involved in the preparation of such sabotage and terrorist attacks," he said. Death of Russian military blogger: Vladlen Tatarsky, a pro-Kremlin Russian military blogger, was killed by an explosion at a St. Petersburg café on Sunday. Within Russia, suspicion has fallen on Ukrainian special services, informal Russian opposition groups and associates of the jailed opposition leader Alexey Navalny, though his supporters have denied having anything to do with the explosion. Russian authorities have charged Daria Trepova with terrorism offenses over Tatarsky's death, alleging that Trepova — acting at the behest of Ukraine — brought a “statuette filled with explosives” to the venue and handed it to Tatarsky. Trepova’s husband, Dmitry Rylov, told an independent Russian publication that he is convinced his wife was framed. Ukraine has said little about the explosion, beyond blaming infighting in Russia.  Pledge to prevent "sabotage:" The Russian government also said Wednesday that it would step up efforts to stymie sabotage and enemy intelligence operations in the four declared annexed Ukrainian regions, according to state media. “It was instructed to organize additional operational-search and counterintelligence activities in the anti-terrorist direction, measures to neutralize sabotage groups, block the channels of illicit trafficking in weapons and ammunition,” Russian Security Council Secretary Nikolai Patrushev said, according to the Russian state media RIA Novosti. “Attention was drawn to preventing recruitment activities by Western intelligence services, to identify agents of influence, to counter the spread of the ideology of neo-Nazism and religious extremism, primarily among children and youth," Patrushev told reporters following the meeting of the Security Council, as quoted by RIA. “Attempts to destabilize the socio-political situation and undermine the constitutional order will be severely suppressed in accordance with Russian legislation,” he added. NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg said that Russia's recent pledge to deploy strategic and tactical nuclear weapons to Belarus shows that a joint statement released by Russia and China in late March amounted to “empty promises.”  “The announcement that they will deploy tactical weapons – nuclear weapons – to Belarus just after signing an agreement stating the opposite just shows that these are empty promises,” Stoltenberg told a press conference Wednesday in Brussels.  Remember: In late March, China and Russia released a joint statement about the Russian war in Ukraine, in which Chinese President Xi Jinping said that China “always supports peace and dialogue, and firmly stands on the right side of history." Xi added that he hopes he will “maintain close contacts” with Russian President Vladimir Putin, "paving the way to the steady and lasting development of China-Russia relations."  Stoltenberg said that China “refuses to condemn Russia’s aggression; it echoes Russian propaganda, and it props up Russia’s economy.” He added that NATO allies have made it clear that “any provision of lethal aid by China to Russia would be a historic mistake with profound implications.”  Britain's Foreign Secretary James Cleverly on Wednesday added that there was “discomfort” over recent ties between China and Russia.  "We have seen a discomfort with how close China has got to Russia recently. The recognition that the world, the interconnected world in which we live is a smaller place than perhaps it was in the past, and that therefore we have to be very, very conscious of all potential risks and threats, not just to the Euro Atlantic region, but also to the Asia-Pacific as well,” he told reporters after attending a meeting of NATO foreign minister in Brussels.  Cleverly said that Britain’s priority is to get Ukraine the military support they need to defend themselves from Russian attacks and “we will continue working towards that route, ultimately towards NATO membership." CNN’s Sugam Pokharel contributed reporting to this post. A spokesperson for Russia’s Foreign Ministry on Wednesday accused the leaders of media organizations condemning the arrest of American journalist Evan Gershkovich of “hypocrisy,” because they did not condemn the murder of a pro-Kremlin Russian military blogger over the weekend. The heads of various media organizations and press freedom organizations wrote a letter last week to Russia’s ambassador in Washington, calling the charges against Gershkovich, a reporter for The Wall Street Journal, “unfounded” and “a significant escalation in your government’s anti-press actions.” Asked about that letter on Wednesday, foreign ministry spokesperson Maria Zakharova said, “Why on Earth should we react to a letter if we see their absolute hypocrisy?” “If people were really engaged in supporting independent free journalism, journalism as a profession, specific journalists, they would probably pay attention to the fact that a journalist has died recently,” she said. “I did not see the reaction, either collective or individual, of all those who signed this letter.” “Accordingly, to be honest, for me this appeal has lost any significance at all. […] You can’t talk about high moral things if you don’t see the obvious and refuse to see the tragedy and express at least some sympathy,” she said.   Gershkovich’s arrest marks the first time an American journalist has been detained on accusations by Moscow of spying since the Cold War. Some context: Zakharova's remarks come after well-known Russian military blogger Vladlen Tatarsky was killed in an explosion in St. Petersburg on Sunday. Tatarsky died when a blast tore through the cafe where he was appearing as a guest of a pro-war group. CNN's Radina Gigova and Mariya Knight contributed to this post. The Ukrainian military and a soldier near Bakhmut say that heavy battles are raging in Russia’s continued attempt to fully capture the eastern city. “The enemy is trying to take full control of the city of Bakhmut and continues to attack it,” Ukraine’s General Staff said in its daily update. “The enemy conducted unsuccessful offensives near Bohdanivka and Ivanivske. Ukrainian defense forces repelled about 15 enemy attacks in this area over the last day.” A Ukrainian soldier with whom CNN exchanged text messages, who is stationed near Bakhmut, said that “heavy battles” were raging in Bakhmut’s city center. “The orcs (Russians) must have sent fresh troops,” the soldier said. “They have been temporarily stopped, but the pressure is very strong.” He said that all roads leading to Bakhmut continued to be shelled. “While individual vehicles can still get through, an organized column will not be able to. The logistics are not interrupted, but entering and leaving Bakhmut is a strong test of one's luck. Almost everyone who enters or leaves comes under fire, and this is despite the fact that the orcs (Russians) have been pushed back a bit from the Bakhmut-Kostiantynivka road. Basically, everyone moves only along dirt roads.” “In short, it is very risky and the risk is very high.” More on Bakhmut: Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky on Wednesday acknowledged the possibility of a military withdrawal from the eastern city of Bakhmut, but said that ammunition deliveries from Ukraine’s ally would bolster his military’s defense. “For me, the most important thing is not to lose our military,” Zelensky said during a meeting in Warsaw with Polish President Andrzej Duda. “And certainly, if there is a moment of even more intense events and the danger that we may lose personnel due to the encirclement, there will be appropriate correct decisions made by the general on the spot. I am sure about that.” “But the more the appropriate ammunition arrives in Ukraine, the faster we will fight the situation not only in Bakhmut but in the whole territory of our country,” he said. CNN's Svitlana Vlasova in Kyiv contributed to this post. Sweden will become a member of NATO despite Turkey's current opposition to Stockholm's bid to join, the chief of the transatlantic military alliance said on Wednesday in his first interview since Finland became a new member of the group on Tuesday.   "I'm confident that Sweden will become a member [of NATO], not least because all NATO allies, including Turkey, invited Sweden to become a member at our summit in Madrid," NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg told CNN's Becky Anderson in an interview.   "Sweden is in a much better and safer position now than before they applied, because as soon as all allies invited them, they got status as an invitee, meaning now they are now integrated into NATO's military and civilian structures — it is absolutely inconceivable that there would be any military attack against Sweden without NATO reacting,” he said, speaking from Brussels.   Some more context: Finland officially became the 31st member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) on Tuesday, marking a major shift in the security landscape in northeastern Europe that adds some 1,300 kilometers (or about 830 miles) to the alliance’s frontier with Russia. Sweden’s attempt to join the bloc has been stalled by alliance members Turkey and Hungary.   Finland’s fold into the alliance also reignited calls from Ukraine to join NATO. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky is in Poland and Stoltenberg has indicated that he has also been invited to the alliance’s summit, taking place in the Lithuanian capital of Vilnius in July.    "NATO's position is that Ukraine will become a member of the alliance. Our main focus now is to provide support for Ukraine to ensure that Ukraine prevails as a sovereign independent nation in Europe, which is a precondition to any meaningful discussion about membership," said Stoltenberg. "It's important to meet with Ukraine... to discuss how to sustain the unprecedented support NATO and NATO allies are providing Ukraine, to discuss reforms, but also to raise issues related to minority rights."   US President Joe Biden's administration announced an additional package of military aid to Ukraine totaling $2.6 billion on Tuesday, part of a slew of NATO support for the embattled nation. Ukraine has burned through ammunition and weapons faster than the US and NATO can produce it, but Stoltenberg promised to ramp up production to meet further needs.  Correction: An earlier version of this post misquoted NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg. He said it would be "absolutely inconceivable" a military attack against Sweden would not provoke a NATO reaction. The ban on Russian sides from competing in European soccer tournaments would be hard to change “until the war (in Ukraine) stops,” the president of European soccer’s governing body UEFA said on Wednesday.  Speaking to reporters in Lisbon, UEFA President Aleksander Ceferin said, “My personal opinion that I can say is that until the war stops it would be very hard for us to change anything.”  “Of course, it is a decision of the executive committee in any case,” he said.  In a joint move with FIFA, UEFA suspended all Russian international and club teams from their competitions “until further notice” in February last year, following Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.  The governing body also said Russia’s bid to host Euro 2028 or Euro 2032 had been ruled ineligible.    UEFA’s club competitions include the men’s and women’s Champions League, the men’s Europa League and the men’s Europa Conference League.  CNN's Matias Grez contributed reporting to this post. Russian President Vladimir Putin on Wednesday said that the situation in four regions of Ukraine declared annexed by Russia “remains tense.” "As you know, I recently visited Mariupol myself and looked at the progress of restoration,” he said during a meeting of Russia’s Security Council, which included the Russian-backed leaders of the four Ukrainian regions: Donetsk, Luhansk, Zaporizhzhia and Kherson. “It can be seen that the city is changing, but it is important that positive changes take place in all cities and in all settlements of all four regions," he added. He said that a “long-term program” was being developed to bolster the regions’ economies.  "At the same time, I repeat: The situation in these regions remains tense,” Putin said, alleging that "the Kyiv regime continues to commit grave crimes against civilians living there. They spare no one, they subject cities and towns to rocket strikes, artillery and mortar attacks." Some key context: Putin's claims to the four Ukrainian regions after so-called referendums held in September 2022 have been widely denounced by Ukraine and Western nations. Luhansk and Donetsk are home to two Russian-backed breakaway republics where fighting has been ongoing since 2014. Russian forces do not control all of the Kherson and Zaporizhzhia regions since Putin began his full-scale invasion in February 2022. US Ambassador to the UN Linda Thomas-Greenfield said on Wednesday that she met with her Russian counterpart Vassily Nebenzia on Tuesday regarding the arrest of American journalist Evan Gershkovich. Gershkovich, who works for The Wall Street Journal, is currently held in the notorious Lefortovo pre-detention center and faces up to 20 years in prison on espionage charges. “I spoke to my Russian counterpart yesterday regarding the arrest of an American journalist and expressed our strong, strong demand that he be released immediately,” Thomas-Greenfield told reporters at the UN headquarters in New York on Wednesday.  “This is really beyond the pale to use a journalist who had already had been accredited in Russia and accuse him of the kinds of actions they’ve accused him of,” Thomas-Greenfield said. American consular access to visit jailed US journalist Evan Gershkovich at Moscow’s Lefortovo prison “is being resolved,” a spokesperson for the Russian foreign ministry said on Wednesday. “The issue of consular access to him has been taken into consideration. It is being resolved taking into account the existing consular practice and Russian legislation,” Maria Zakharova said during a press briefing.  American officials have not yet been able to visit Gershkovich. His lawyers were able to meet with him on Tuesday, according to The Wall Street Journal, his employer. More on the situation: On Sunday, US Secretary of State Antony Blinken spoke with Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov about Gershkovich and Paul Whelan, another American detained in Russia, according to the US State Department. “Secretary Blinken conveyed the United States’ grave concern over Russia’s unacceptable detention of a U.S. citizen journalist,” a readout from the US State Department said. “The Secretary called for his immediate release.” The two “also discussed the importance of creating an environment that permits diplomatic missions to carry out their work,” according to the readout. The Biden administration is preparing to officially declare Gershkovich as wrongfully detained in Russia, two US officials told CNN, a move that will trigger new US government resources to work towards his release, CNN reported earlier. The president of Belarus, Alexander Lukashenko, has arrived in Moscow for a meeting with Russian President Vladimir Putin, according to Belarusian state media Belta. “The presidents will consider a wide range of issues of Belarusian-Russian relations, including those that are not subject to discussion at the Supreme State Council meeting,” Belta reported. Earlier Wednesday, the Kremlin said that Lukashenko's proposal for a freezing of “hostilities” in Ukraine — which both Russia and Ukraine have rejected — would likely be discussed. Rafael Grossi, the head of the International Atomic Energy Agency, met with high-level officials from Russian agencies on Wednesday in the Russia's enclave of Kaliningrad, he said in a tweet. The chief of the United Nations nuclear watchdog said he is continuing his efforts to protect the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant in Ukraine. The nuclear plant has been occupied by Russian forces since March 2022 and is now run by the Russian atomic agency Rosatom. "My recent visit to #ZNPP confirmed the urgent need to achieve this vital objective, which is in everyone’s interest,” he added. The situation at the nuclear plant has not improved, according to Grossi, who visited the facility last week and said there was increased military activity in the area. Russian President Vladimir Putin told the new US Ambassador to Moscow, Lynne Tracy, that Washington’s support for the Maidan protesters in 2014 was to blame for the conflict in Ukraine.  "Dear Madam Ambassador, I do not want to disturb the gracious atmosphere of the presentation of credentials and I know that you may not agree with me, but I cannot but say that the use of such instruments by the United States in its foreign policy as support for the so-called 'color revolutions,' support in this regard by the State Department of the coup in Kyiv in 2014, ultimately have led to the current Ukrainian crisis," Putin told Tracy as he accepted her credentials. "[US actions] additionally made a negative impact on the degradation of Russian-American relations." About the Maidan protests: More than 70 people died during the 2014 protests, which were sparked by former Ukrainian President Viktor Yanukovych’s decision to scrap a trade deal with the European Union and instead turn toward Russia. On the bloodiest day in Kyiv's Maidan, or Independence Square, nearly 50 people died and 100 were injured when, according to protesters, government snip