Tiger Woods says he's unsure whether this year's Masters will be the last of his career with the 47-year-old acutely aware of his injury struggles. The golf icon is preparing for his 25th appearance at the major -- which starts April 6 -- but told reporters Tuesday that the thought of this being the last time competing at Augusta National had crossed his mind. "I don't know how many more I have in me," Woods said in an answer to a question from CNN Sport's Don Riddell. "So just to be able to appreciate the time that I have here and cherish the memories," the five-time Masters champion said. Woods made a dramatic comeback to golf at last year's event after a serious car crash in 2021 which caused severe injuries to his leg. He said that amputation had been "on the table" following the incident but he eventually recovered enough to return to competition. The 15-time major winner says he now has a different appreciation of the game but insists he can still be competitive on the course. "I think my game is better than it was last year at this particular time," he said, speaking about his recovery. "I think my endurance is better but it aches a little bit more than it did last year just because at that particular time when I came back, I really had not pushed it that often. "I just have to be cognizant of how much I can push it." Not being able to take part in as many tournaments as he once did has given Woods more time to enjoy life away from the sport as he opened up about his relationship with his late father and with his son when CNN's Riddell asked him how he still finds joy in golf. "The joy is different now. I've been able to spend more time with my son, and we've been able to create our own memories out there," Woods answered. "And to share some of the things that my dad, what I experienced with my dad, the late-night putting or practice sessions that we did at the Navy Golf Course, I'm doing with my son. It's incredible, the bonding and the moments that come because of this sport. "So the joy, it's different. I'm not able to compete and play as many tournaments or do the things I've been able to do over the years. "But to be able to still share this game and share some memories and create new memories with my son and also pass on some of the things that I've learned -- I've learned a lot of things in this game, so to pass that on to him and others has been fantastic. "It's incredible, the bonding and the moments that come because of this sport." A shock victory would see Woods tie Jack Nicklaus as the most successful Masters champion in history with six wins. It comes as Woods was named on Forbes' world's billionaires list, with the golfer reportedly worth $1.1 billion. He joins LeBron James as the only two active athletes on the list. According to Forbes, they are the first athletes to hit the 10-digit net worth mark while still active in their respective sports.