Donald Trump waits to speak at a 9/11 memorial service in 2017. Trump at age 4. He was born in 1946 to Fred and Mary Trump in New York City. His father was a real estate developer. Trump, left, in a family photo. He was the second-youngest of five children. Trump, center, stands at attention during his senior year at the New York Military Academy. Trump, center, wears a baseball uniform at the New York Military Academy. After he graduated from the boarding school, he went to college. He started at Fordham University before transferring and later graduating from the Wharton School, the University of Pennsylvania's business school. Trump stands with Alfred Eisenpreis, New York's economic development administrator, in 1976 while they look at a sketch of a new 1,400-room renovation project of the Commodore Hotel. After graduating from college in 1968, Trump worked with his father on developments in Queens and Brooklyn before purchasing or building multiple properties in New York and Atlantic City, New Jersey. Those properties included Trump Tower in New York and Trump Plaza and multiple casinos in Atlantic City. In 1979, Trump attends an event to mark the start of construction of the New York Convention Center. Trump wears a hard hat at the Trump Tower construction site in New York in 1980. Trump and his family, circa 1986. Trump was married to Ivana Zelnicek Trump from 1977 to 1990, when they divorced. They had three children together: Donald Jr., Ivanka and Eric. Trump uses his personal helicopter to get around New York in 1987. Trump stands in the atrium of Trump Tower. Trump attends the opening of his new Atlantic City casino, the Taj Mahal, in 1989. Trump signs his second book, "Trump: Surviving at the Top," in 1990. Trump has published at least 16 other books, including "The Art of the Deal" and "The America We Deserve." Trump and singer Michael Jackson pose for a photo before traveling to visit Ryan White, a young child with AIDS, in 1990. Trump dips his second wife, Marla Maples, after the couple married in a private ceremony in New York in December 1993. The couple divorced in 1999 and had one daughter together, Tiffany. Trump putts a golf ball in his New York office in 1998. An advertisement for the television show "The Apprentice" hangs at Trump Tower in 2004. The show launched in January of that year. In January 2008, the show returned as "Celebrity Apprentice." A 12-inch talking Trump doll is on display at a toy store in New York in September 2004. Trump attends a news conference in 2005 that announced the establishment of Trump University. From 2005 until it closed in 2010, Trump University had about 10,000 people sign up for a program that promised success in real estate. Three separate lawsuits — two class-action suits filed in California and one filed by New York's attorney general — argued that the program was mired in fraud and deception. In November 2016, just days after winning the presidential election, Trump agreed to settle the lawsuits. He repeatedly denied the fraud claims and said that he could have won at trial, but he said that as president he did not have time and wanted to focus on the country. Trump attends the US Open tennis tournament with his third wife, Melania Knauss-Trump, and their son, Barron, in 2006. Trump and Knauss married in 2005. Trump wrestles with "Stone Cold" Steve Austin at WrestleMania in 2007. Trump has close ties with the WWE and its CEO, Vince McMahon. And after being elected president, Trump picked McMahon's wife, Linda, to serve as the administrator of the Small Business Administration. For "The Apprentice," Trump was honored with a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame in January 2007. Trump appears on the set of "The Celebrity Apprentice" with two of his children — Donald Jr. and Ivanka — in 2007. Trump poses with Miss Universe contestants in 2011. Trump had been executive producer of the Miss Universe, Miss USA and Miss Teen USA pageants since 1996. In 2012, Trump announced his endorsement of Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney. Trump speaks in Sarasota, Florida, after accepting the Statesman of the Year Award at the Sarasota GOP dinner in August 2012. It was shortly before the Republican National Convention in nearby Tampa. Trump appears on stage with singer Nick Jonas and television personality Giuliana Rancic during the 2013 Miss USA pageant. In June 2015, during a speech from Trump Tower, Trump announced that he was running for president. He said he would give up "The Apprentice" to run. Trump — flanked by US Sens. Marco Rubio, left, and Ted Cruz — speaks during a CNN debate in March 2016. Trump dominated the GOP primaries and emerged as the presumptive nominee in May of that year. Members of the Trump family pose for a photo in New York in April 2016. Behind Trump, from left, are daughter Tiffany, daughter-in-law Vanessa, granddaughter Kai Madison, son Donald Jr., son-in-law Jared Kushner, daughter Ivanka, wife Melania, son Eric and daughter-in-law Lara. Trump speaks during a campaign event in Evansville, Indiana, in April 2016. After Trump won the Indiana primary, his last two competitors dropped out of the GOP race. Trump delivers a speech at the Republican National Convention in July 2016, accepting the party's nomination for president. "I have had a truly great life in business," he said. "But now, my sole and exclusive mission is to go to work for our country — to go to work for you. It's time to deliver a victory for the American people." Trump faces Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton in the first presidential debate, which took place in Hempstead, New York, in September 2016. Trump apologizes in a video, posted to his Twitter account in October 2016, for vulgar and sexually aggressive remarks he made more than a decade ago regarding women. "I said it, I was wrong and I apologize," Trump said, referring to lewd comments he made during a previously unaired taping of "Access Hollywood." Multiple Republican leaders rescinded their endorsements of Trump after the footage was released. Trump walks on stage with his family after he was declared the election winner in November 2016. "Ours was not a campaign, but rather, an incredible and great movement," he told his supporters in New York. Two days after winning the election, Trump meets with President Barack Obama at the White House. Three days after mocking Trump as unfit to control the codes needed to launch nuclear weapons, Obama told his successor that he wanted him to succeed and would do everything he could to ensure a smooth transition. "As I said last night, my No. 1 priority in the next two months is to try to facilitate a transition that ensures our president-elect is successful," Obama said. Trump shares a meal in New York with Mitt Romney in November 2016. Trump and his transition team were in the process of filling high-level positions for the new administration, and Romney was reportedly in the running for secretary of state. That job ended up going to Rex Tillerson. Trump arrives for his inauguration ceremony in January 2017. Trump is joined by his wife and his five children as he takes the oath of office from Chief Justice John Roberts. Melania is holding a family Bible and a Bible that belonged to former President Abraham Lincoln. Next to Melania, from left, are Trump's children Barron, Donald Jr., Ivanka, Tiffany and Eric. The new president kisses the first lady as they dance at one of three inaugural balls. The president, known for his affinity of over-the-top gold fixtures, went for classic Americana with a touch of retro glitz. Trump shakes hands with FBI Director James Comey during a White House reception in January 2017. Trump fired Comey a few months later, sweeping away the man who was responsible for the FBI's investigation into whether members of Trump's campaign team colluded with Russia in its election interference. The Trump administration attributed Comey's dismissal to his handling of the investigation into Hillary Clinton's email server. Trump has a phone conversation with Russian President Vladimir Putin, one of several world leaders he talked to after taking office. Joining Trump in the Oval Office, from left, were Chief of Staff Reince Priebus, Vice President Mike Pence, senior adviser Steve Bannon, press secretary Sean Spicer and national security adviser Michael Flynn. Trump, in front of a portrait of his 2016 opponent Hillary Clinton, surprises visitors who were touring the White House in March 2017. The tour group, including many young children, cheered and screamed after the president popped out from behind a room divider. Trump watches as Supreme Court Justice Anthony Kennedy, right, administers the judicial oath to Neil Gorsuch during a White House ceremony in April 2017. Gorsuch was chosen by Trump to replace Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia, who died in 2016. Holding the Bible is Gorsuch's wife, Marie Louise. Trump points at Sergey Kislyak, Russia's ambassador to the United States, while hosting Kislyak and Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov, left, at the White House in May 2017. The meeting with Lavrov was the highest-level encounter between the US administration and Moscow since Trump's inauguration. From right, President Trump, first lady Melania Trump, Saudi King Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud and Egyptian President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi attend an inauguration ceremony for the Global Center for Combating Extremist Ideology. The facility is in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. See more photos from Trump's first foreign tour in May 2017 Trump touches the Western Wall, Judaism's holiest prayer site, while in Jerusalem in May 2017. Trump became the first sitting US president to visit the wall. Pope Francis stands with Trump and his family during a private audience at the Vatican in May 2017. Joining the president were his wife and his daughter Ivanka. Trump looks up at the sky during the total solar eclipse in August 2017. He eventually put on protective glasses as he watched the eclipse with his wife and their son from the White House South Portico. Trump talks with Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer during a meeting in the White House Oval Office in September 2017. The end result of that meeting was Trump bucking his own party and siding with Democrats to support a deal that would ensure passage of disaster relief funding, raise the debt ceiling, and continue to fund the government into December. Trump, accompanied by the first lady, puts on a bomber jacket that he received from US forces in Tokyo in November 2017. Trump was on a five-nation tour of Asia that lasted nearly two weeks. Trump gestures during his State of the Union address in January 2018. Trump declared that the "state of our union is strong because our people are strong. Together, we are building a safe, strong and proud America." Trump holds his notes while hosting a listening session with