I was at the barbershop recently when Childish Gambino's 2016 track "Redbone" popped up on a playlist. Singing about infidelity, Gambino — also known as Donald Glover — belts out, "Stay woke!" in the chorus. As we nodded our heads in unison to the song, someone asked, "How did 'woke' become the new scary term? Do they even know what it means?" We all had a wry laugh about language that has been misappropriated over the years, but the distortion of "woke" has been particularly insidious. I must give credit to the Silent Majority, the Moral Majority, MAGA, Q-Anon and all the other iterations of conservatism that Republicans have transmogrified into over the past five decades: They are masterminds at coming up with messaging that scares the Jim Crow hell out of their base. "Woke" is their latest stunt. In the 1960s, it was "Black Power," a term about empowerment and self-reliance popularized by Kwame Ture, also known as Stokely Carmichael. Conservatives rebranded the term, which became a catch-all phrase to scare White voters that "Negroes" were taking over. Those two words would then be twisted by "White Power" adherents who, according to the ADL, deliberately mimicked the term "Black Power." Some years later, former California governor and later President Ronald Reagan famously deployed the "welfare queen" narrative, framing public assistance as a Black issue, even though more White people than Black have been helped over the years by those federal aid programs. After Reagan, George H. W. Bush invoked the name of Willie Horton, a convicted Black man on weekend release from prison to rile up his base, during the 1988 presidential campaign. The Bush team made Horton a symbol of allegedly lenient prison furlough programs that were supposedly sending murderers and rapists into the suburbs. Bush rocketed in the polls, framing his opponent, Democrat Michael Dukakis, as weak on crime. Bush won the presidential election and the Willie Horton television commercial — an ad General Colin Powell described as being "racist... cold political calculation" — was a turning point in the campaign. Yet again, Republicans had found a potent symbol of how to effectively manipulate voters' fears. Over the past several years, co-optation of language by the GOP has been on overdrive, due in part to the advent of social media. Once upon a time, politicians hammered incendiary language in speeches and interviews; Today, they have the ability to disseminate a similarly noxious narrative almost instantly online. Lee Atwater -— the brain behind the Willie Horton ad and other Southern Strategy tactics — would be proud. As he lay dying from cancer in the final months of his life, Atwater reportedly said he regretted the Horton ad, but the legacy of his racist actions lives on. The current list of terms that conservatives have weaponized is long and growing: Black Lives Matter. Defund the police. Critical race theory. Intersectionality. Now, add to it the ubiquitous — almost inescapable — word "woke." To be clear, woke is not political, but it has been politically weaponized by bad-faith actors, mostly on the right. Being "woke" is not a term exclusive to the realm of social justice; it's a decades-old slang in Black communities, meaning to "be aware." For example: "I heard your man is cheating — stay woke!" Blues icon Lead Belly, at the end of his recording of the 1938 song "Scottsboro Boys," talked about the need to "stay woke" after Black men and children were wrongfully accused of raping two White women in Alabama. In other words, be alert, keep your eyes open and watch your back — figuratively and literally. The mangling of "woke" cannot be solely placed on politicians. Celebrities and comedians have played a role: Bill Maher, Sean Penn, Russell Brand, Kanye West and Dave Chappelle to name a few, have all misused the word in recent years, contributing to the despoiling of a cherished cultural term. Either out of willful ignorance or arrogance, they deploy the term out of context, often while pouting about "cancel culture." Meanwhile, pushing back against "woke-ism" has become a profitable business model for anti-woke warriors. John McWhorter wrote a 2021 book titled, "Woke Racism: How a New Religion Has Betrayed Black America," this New York Times bestseller was partly popular because a Black writer was denouncing "wokeness." Bethany Mandel recently released "Stolen Youth: How Radicals Are Erasing Innocence and Indoctrinating a Generation," which, according to her, included a whole chapter on "wokeness" yet she famously struggled to provide a definition in an eye-rolling television interview. She later complained about being lampooned on Twitter — but also bragged about how many copies of her book that she had sold as a result. Journalist Bari Weiss, meanwhile, who rants incessantly about wokeness, has been dubbed an "anti-woke warrior" and is a co-founder of the "anti-woke" University of Austin. What's more dangerous than any of the misappropriation, however, is the way that attacks on "woke-ism" have made their way into policy. Florida Governor Ron DeSantis signed into law the "Stop WOKE Act," which is wreaking havoc on Florida's colleges, universities, libraries and schools. "Woke-ism" now somehow has expanded to encompass sexual orientation and gender identity. It's even being cited as the real reason for prosecuting the former president on 34 felony counts of falsifying business records. Even the most anodyne mention of civil rights is suppressed, as seen recently with revered figures like Rosa Parks and Ruby Bridges. The boogeyman framing around "woke" is intentional. In 2021, South Carolina Senator Tim Scott complained about "woke supremacy," a term with inescapable echoes of "White supremacy"— creating a deeply racist, false equivalency that pandered to a faction of the GOP in his state. It was a move that perhaps was not all that surprising coming from the only Black Republican in the US Senate, who is fond of saying that his family had gone from "cotton to Congress" when he downplays racism in his party. Not even Lee Atwater could have predicted the Southern Strategy tactics being used by Black politicians. There are no "woke" villains attempting to take over America. Is there sometimes unnecessary word policing? Can people be oversensitive? Can corporations overreact to the latest scandal or a trending topic? Absolutely, but that is not "woke-ism." Labeling so-called overreactions or something you don't like with a term rooted in Black communities, racializes — and shuts down — discourse many people claim we need. Here's what my friends at the barbershop say about right-wing politicians, conservative media outlets, privileged celebrities, Twitter trolls: You can't have the word "woke." It doesn't belong to you, and never did. Be creative and think up your own dog whistles. What you refer to as "woke-ism" is old school, political gaslighting. I will keep using "woke" in its proper context. And if you don't understand it, then maybe the word is not yours to use.