Former President Donald Trump sits in a Manhattan courtroom with his defense team on Tuesday, April 4. Trump arrives to deliver remarks at his Mar-a-Lago resort in Florida on Tuesday. "The only crime that I have committed is to fearlessly defend our nation from those who seek to destroy it," he said. A copy of the unsealed indictment is displayed on Tuesday. Trump has been charged with 34 felony counts. Manhattan District Attorney Alvin Bragg speaks during a news conference Tuesday. He said "the evidence will show" Trump made false statements "to cover up crimes relating to the 2016 election." Barricades are dismantled after Trump left the Manhattan Criminal Courthouse on Tuesday. Trump attorney Todd Blanche, center, leaves the courthouse on Tuesday. Trump walks through the courthouse on Tuesday. Trump's motorcade drives to the courthouse. Trump leaves Trump Tower in New York before heading to the courthouse. US Rep. Marjorie Taylor Greene appears at a rally outside the courthouse on Tuesday. When she arrived, Greene told CNN that she was there "to be with the people that have come to peacefully protest." The Republican firebrand from Georgia spoke on a bullhorn for a brief time before departing. Members of the media gather outside the courthouse on Tuesday. A protester holds a sign outside Trump Tower on Tuesday. Lights are on at Trump Tower, where Trump spent the night, on Monday, April 3. Trump arrives at Trump Tower on Monday. Trump's plane lands at New York's LaGuardia Airport on Monday. A television news reporter is seen outside Trump Tower on Monday. New York police officers stand near Trump Tower on Monday. A man walks past the Manhattan Criminal Courthouse on Monday. Dan Ray waves an American flag Monday as a plane carrying Trump takes off from the Palm Beach International Airport in Florida. A doorman stands outside of Trump Tower on Monday. Police officers view crowds from Trump Tower on Monday. Trump supporters cheer as his motorcade passes by in West Palm Beach, Florida, on Monday. News crews broadcast near Trump Tower on Monday. A woman wears a choker necklace that reads "Trump Girl" outside Trump's Mar-a-Lago resort on Sunday, April 2. News of Trump's indictment is seen on the front page of The New York Times on Friday, March 31. Reporters and demonstrators are posted outside Trump Tower after news broke of Trump's indictment on Thursday, March 30. Mary Kelley waves a Trump flag near the former president's Mar-a-Lago estate after he was indicted on March 30. Bragg leaves the Manhattan Criminal Courthouse after the grand jury indicted Trump on March 30. The Manhattan district attorney had remained tight-lipped on the details of the Trump probe, which he inherited from his predecessor, Cy Vance, who began the investigation when Trump was still in the White House. A person places signs on the ground as anti-Trump protesters gathered outside the Manhattan Criminal Courthouse on March 27. Trump speaks with reporters on his plane after he held a campaign rally in Waco, Texas, on March 25. Trump leaves after speaking at his rally in Waco on March 25. Trump, who is running for president again, railed against what he called "prosecutorial misconduct" and denied any wrongdoing amid investigations in New York, Georgia and Washington, DC. A supporter high-fives a poster at the site of Trump's rally in Waco on March 25. Trump's Mar-a-Lago home is seen in Palm Beach on March 23. Prosecutors Matt Colangelo, left, and Susan Hoffinger, center, walk outside the Manhattan Criminal Courthouse on March 22. An employee is seen behind the counter at the Trump Tower gift shop in New York on March 21. Robert Costello, an attorney who has previously represented Trump allies such as Steve Bannon and Rudy Giuliani, testified before the grand jury in New York for nearly three hours on March 20 after appearing at the request of the former president's legal team. Costello was expected to offer evidence that contradicts testimony provided by former Trump attorney Michael Cohen, who has admitted to paying $130,000 to Stormy Daniels just before the 2016 election to stop her from going public about an alleged affair with the former president. Trump has denied the affair. Media and protesters are seen outside Bragg's office in New York on March 20. A couple of days earlier, Trump said in a social media post that he expected to be arrested within days. Evelyn Knapp walks past a Trump flag that his supporters were flying near his Mar-a-Lago home on March 20. Gavin Wax, president of the New York Young Republican Club, speaks to members of the media on March 20, a couple of days after Trump said he expected to be arrested. "We are here to show that there is support for President Trump in the bluest area in the country, here in Manhattan," Wax said, according to Politico. Cohen leaves a Manhattan courthouse after testifying before the grand jury on March 13. "My goal is to tell the truth," Cohen told reporters before testifying. "My goal is to allow Alvin Bragg and his team to do what they need to do. I'm just here to answer the questions." Trump boards his airplane before flying to Iowa to campaign on March 13.