Follow the latest news on Russia's war in Ukraine here and read more about today's developments in the posts below.   A Ukrainian soldier who has been serving in the Bakhmut area for many weeks has told CNN that the town of Chasiv Yar – on high ground to the west of the city – is firmly in Ukrainian hands. The soldier, with whom CNN has spoken in the past, is with the 46th separate airmobile brigade. He said that Chasiv Yar, a town of several thousand inhabitants before the war, “is the dominant height above the area around it. This means an advantage for conducting fire, especially with artillery. Therefore, the city is of particular importance to either side.” He said that Russian forces were unable to break through Ukrainian defenses to the south-east of Chasiv Yar (around Ivanivske). “The orcs [Russians] had a chance about a month ago, when they were standing almost a few hundred meters from the road,” the soldier told CNN. “But they did not have enough reserves and were thrown back, now they are two kilometers from the road.” The road runs west from Bakhmut through lower ground. The soldier said the Russians now had no way to advance to Chasiv Yar because the area of the road around Ivanivske “is quite strongly defended.” They would also be vulnerable to an attack on their flanks if they tried to reach Chasiv Yar. “So Chasiv Yar is a long story for Russians,” the soldier told CNN. “But if we leave Bakhmut, Chasiv Yar will be the next target” for the Russians. The Wall Street Journal said that its reporter Evan Gershkovich has been able to meet with his lawyers Tuesday. In a statement, the Journal said: “Evan’s lawyers were able to meet with him in prison today. They said Evan’s health is good, and he is grateful for the outpouring of support from around the world. We stand with Evan and continue to call for his immediate release.” The Journal’s statement, from Editor-in-Chief Emma Tucker and Almar Latour, the CEO of Dow Jones, which publishes the Journal, said that Gershkovich “was doing what journalists do – asking questions and providing an eyewitness account in the region to help keep the world well informed.” “His imprisonment is wholly unjustified and an attack on a free press. We are doing everything in our power to bring Evan home safely and will not rest until he is reunited with his family.” European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said she held a telephone conversation with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky Tuesday ahead of her visit to China on Wednesday.   Ukraine will be an “important topic" of her meetings with Chinese President Xi Jinping and Premier Li Qiang, von der Leyen said in a tweet.   “The EU wants a just peace that respects Ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial integrity,” she wrote.   China’s stance on Russia’s war in Ukraine will be a “determining factor” for European Union’s relations with Beijing going forward, von der Leyen said last week.  “How China continues to interact with (Russian President Vladimir) Putin’s war will be a determining factor for EU-China relations going forward,” she said in Brussels.   The EU chief will accompany French President Emmanuel Macron to China on Wednesday.   NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg has indicated that Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has been invited to the alliance’s summit taking place in the Lithuanian capital of Vilnius in July.  "A strong independent Ukraine is vital for the stability of the Euro-Atlantic area, and we look forward to meeting President Zelensky at our Vilnius summit in July," Stoltenberg said.  He made the remark in Brussels on Tuesday, following a meeting of the NATO-Ukraine Commission – the body responsible for the relationship between Ukraine and the alliance.    Training for Ukrainians on US M1-A1 Abrams tanks has not yet started, but will begin “relatively soon,” a senior defense official told reporters Tuesday. “Abrams training has not yet begun…We are still working on the equipment procurement so we haven't we have not yet begun the training, but I would expect that that will happen relatively soon,” the official said during a background briefing. In total, the official said the US has trained more than 7,000 Ukrainian troops since the beginning of Russia’s invasion more than a year ago. The US plans to send 31 M1-A1 tanks to Ukraine — the size of a Ukrainian tank battalion. The US agreed to send the tanks in January after a sudden reversal on its stated policy that Abrams were too complex and difficult to maintain for Ukrainian forces in the middle of a war. The Biden administration relented under pressure from Germany, which said that it would only approve the transfer of its Leopard 2 tanks to Ukraine if the US agreed to send Abrams tanks as well. But the US cautioned that delivering tanks to Ukraine would take time. “We just don’t have these tanks available in excess in our US stocks,” said Pentagon press secretary Sabrina Singh shortly after the US announcement. Turkey on Tuesday welcomed Finland as a new NATO member as Ankara continues to block Helsinki's Scandinavian neighbor Stockholm from joining the transatlantic military alliance.  “I would like to welcome Finland as a new ally. With Finland, now our alliance is much more stronger,” Turkish Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu said in Brussels, speaking alongside US Secretary of State Antony Blinken earlier today as the minister handed ratification document to the American diplomat. The Turkish Parliament voted unanimously in favor of Finland’s membership on Thursday, clearing the last hurdle in the accession process.  Both Finland and Sweden requested to join the military alliance in May last year following Russia's invasion of Ukraine.   ##Finland NATO##   The Ukrainian military says it continues to repel Russian attacks in several places along the front lines in Donetsk region, with more than 45 assaults in the past day focused on the Bakhmut area, as well as around Avdiivka and Mariinka near Donetsk city, and Lyman near the border with Luhansk. The General Staff of the Armed Forces said that about 20 of those attacks had been around Bakhmut. It gave no indication that Ukrainian units had lost ground.  Separately, Valerii Zaluzhnyi, commander-in-chief of the Ukrainian armed forces, said that he had spoken with Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Gen. Mark Milley. “Attention was paid to the weapons and ammunition supplies issue. We emphasized the importance of the Ukrainian AD [air defense] system augmentation. We discussed further steps of the AF [armed forces] in order to de-occupy our territories,” Zaluzhyni tweeted. The conversation came after further drone attacks by Russian forces. The General Staff confirmed that over the past day, the Russians launched 17 Shahed-136 drones against Ukraine. As it has been the case for several weeks, Russian forces continued offensive actions in the Avdiivka and Mariinka areas, “but did not succeed,” according to the General Staff. Oleksii Dmytrashkivskyi, the military spokesperson for that area, said there had been 35 combat engagements near Avdiivka and Mariinka in the past day. “The towns of Orikhiv and Preobrazhenka were hit by air strikes,” he said, but Ukrainian units had hit Russian forces with artillery. He said that around Vuhledar, Russian forces were making fewer attempts to conduct assaults compared to the first three months of the year. “The occupiers are hiding in fox-holes,” Dmytrashkivskyi said – but were still being targeted.  Further south, in the Zaporizhzhia sector, he said the Russians are actively mining the area and arranging anti-tank barriers – in anticipation of a Ukrainian counter-offensive in that region. The Russians were also moving ammunition and equipment depots from Mariupol, Dmytrashkivskyi said. The General Staff claimed that in parts of occupied territory, the Russians were appropriating private homes. “For example, in the city of Starobilsk, Luhansk region, the so-called occupation 'authorities' use representatives of public utilities to move servicemen of the Russian occupation forces into apartments and houses temporarily abandoned by Ukrainian citizens.”   Finish Foreign Minister Pekka Haavisto took part in country’s first NATO round table meeting in Brussels Tuesday, following Finland’s accession ceremony earlier in the day. Haavisto was seen smiling and shaking hands with other NATO leaders, before taking a seat next in between Estonia and France. The alliance's chief Jens Stoltenberg opened the meeting by saying, “Let me start by welcoming Finland as the newest member of our alliance.” Stoltenberg’s comments were met by a long round of applause, with Haavisto smiling and mouthing the words, "Thank you." “Mr Haavisto you have attended many meetings, but this is the first time you sit down there between France and Estonia. It is really a great privilege to have you now as a full-fledged member,” Stoltenberg said, adding, “and as we stated so clearly outside, soon we will also have Sweden as a full-fledged member of our alliance.” ##Finland NATO## Sweden has congratulated Finland on its accession to NATO on Tuesday, as Stockholm still awaits the ratification of its own bid. “Congratulations Finland and thank you for the ratification of Swedish membership!” Sweden’s foreign ministry said in a tweet. Both Finland and Sweden requested to join the transatlantic military alliance in May last year following Russia's invasion of Ukraine. However, Sweden’s accession is being stalled by Turkey and Hungary, both of which are holding back support. Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan has previously said Turkey would not approve Sweden's NATO membership unless the country extradites "terrorists" upon Turkish request.  Sweden has made clear this won't happen, and for now, the process is stuck. But the US and European officials remain hopeful that Sweden will be able to join the alliance in the coming months.  ##Finland NATO## The United States and the European Union pledged on Tuesday to “directly confront” any attempts to weaponize energy and destabilize global energy markets as Russia’s war in Ukraine continues.  “The two sides reiterated their strong commitment to directly confront, with adequate measures, all efforts to further destabilize the global energy situation and to circumvent sanctions,” they said in a joint statement released after an EU-US Energy Council meeting in Brussels.  Western leaders have warned Russian President Vladimir Putin against weaponizing its energy exports since Russia launched its full-scale invasion of Ukraine last year.  "Accelerating the energy transition, reducing dependence on fossil fuels, and reducing energy consumption are key to strengthening energy security and countering attempts to weaponize energy," the joint statement stressed. The council also discussed ways to bolster energy security in Ukraine and Moldova.  “Following the successful synchronization of Ukraine and Moldova with the EU electricity grid, the Council intends to continue to support Ukraine's rapid recovery and reconstruction, and support both Ukraine and Moldova by assisting with their long-term economic and clean energy transition,” the statement said.  The US and the EU also vowed to continue coordinating bilateral and multilateral responses to keep the global energy markets stable.    US President Joe Biden's administration announced an additional package of military aid to Ukraine totaling $2.6 billion on Tuesday. The package includes $500 million in drawdown equipment, such as ammunition for High Mobility Artillery Rocket System (HIMARS) and additional munitions for the Patriot missile system, artillery and mortar rounds, heavy fuel tankers, and tactical recovery vehicles. It is the 35th drawdown of US equipment for Ukraine since August 2021. The administration is also allocating $2.1 billion in Ukraine Security Assistance Initiative funds, which intend to produce a “significant package of air defense capabilities” including air surveillance radars and counter-unmanned aerial system 30mm gun trucks, as well as Javelin anti-armor systems and 23 million rounds of small arms munition. The Pentagon’s release announcing the aid on Tuesday reiterated that the US would continue to work with its allies to “provide Ukraine with capabilities to meet its immediate battlefield needs and longer-term security assistance requirements.” The pre-trial detention hearing for a woman detained in connection with an explosion that killed a prominent Russian military blogger at a cafe in St. Petersburg is taking place in Moscow. Video showed the woman, 26-year-old Daria Trepova, being escorted through a Moscow airport and later taken into the court. Th official Russian news agency RIA Novosti reported that the court, at the request of an investigator, agreed to a closed session. The investigator said that a public hearing could violate privacy, according to RIA. At the hearing, the judge said Trepova, who was formally placed under arrest, should be held for one month and 30 days, until June 2. In a statement, the court said it had “granted the investigator's petition to take a preventive measure in the form of detention against Daria Evgenievna Trepova, who is accused of committing a crime under paragraph b, part 3, article 205, part 4, article 222.1 Criminal Code of the Russian Federation until June 2, 2023.” Article 205 deals with terrorist offenses. “The petition of the defense party to choose another measure, not related to detention, was denied,” the court said.  ##Russian Blogger## The Russian Foreign Ministry issued a scathing condemnation of Finland’s accession to NATO, saying the Nordic country will not "influence any decisions." "By joining NATO, Finland has given up on its unique identity and lost its independence, which for decades gave it a special status in international affairs. … Finland became a minor NATO member without the possibility to influence any decisions. It has lost its ability to have a say in international affairs,” it said in a statement. The accession will have a "negative effect" on Russia and Finland's bilateral relations, the ministry added. The Russian Federation's response to "national security threats arising" from this accession will depend in part on "the deployment of NATO’s military infrastructure and offensive weapons on its territory," the ministry said. Earlier, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov warned that the move will force Moscow to "take counter-measures to ensure our own security, both tactically and strategically." ##Finland NATO## Ukrainian Defense Minister Oleksii Reznikov has welcomed the donation of Soviet-era MiG-29s but again called for “modern Western aviation platforms.” “Soviet-style aircraft are suitable for us as a quick response that will give results in a short time,” he said. “We are grateful to our Slovak partners for the MiG-29s that have already been delivered. We are very much counting on combat aircraft from Poland…The MiGs from Poland will significantly strengthen our defense, make our skies safer,” Reznikov said on Facebook. “At the same time, our strategic goal has been and remains the transition to modern Western aviation platforms that will provide our pilots with an advantage over the enemy.”  “I am confident that the decision to provide Ukraine with Western aircraft will certainly be made. This is the last item in my Christmas wish list to Santa,” Reznikov added. To date, no Western country has pledged to provide combat aircraft to Ukraine while the conflict against Russia is ongoing. Reactions from world leaders are pouring in after Finland officially joined NATO on Tuesday. Here are some highlights: US President Joe Biden: “Seventy-four years ago today — as the United States and 11 other nations came together to form the North Atlantic Treaty Organization —President Truman said, ‘if there is anything inevitable in the future, it is the will of the people of the world for freedom and for peace,’” Biden wrote in a statement. “Today, that will is stronger than ever with the addition of Finland to NATO.” He also said he looked “forward” to welcoming Sweden to NATO “as soon as possible.” Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky congratulated Finland and its President Sauli Niinistö in a tweet. "NATO became the only effective security guarantee in the region amid Russian aggression. We expect #NATOSummit in Vilnius will bring Ukraine closer to our Euro-Atlantic goal,” he added.  NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg: The chief of the US-led military alliance said Russian President Vladimir Putin had “failed” in his attempt to “slam NATO’s door shut” amid his invasion of Ukraine. “President Putin wanted to slam NATO’s door shut. Today, we show the world that he failed, that aggression and intimidation do not work. Instead of less NATO, he has achieved the opposite — more NATO — and our door remains firmly open,” Stoltenberg told a news conference in Brussels alongside Niinistö.   Finland now has the “strongest friends and allies in the world,” Stoltenberg declared as he welcomed the country into the alliance.  British Prime Minister Rishi Sunak: “Finland, welcome to NATO,” he tweeted. German Chancellor Olaf Scholz: "This is good news and a victory for transatlantic security," he tweeted. "With #Finland, our defense alliance has gained a strong friend.” Scholz also gave his backing to Sweden’s bid to join the military alliance. “Sweden’s pending accession has our full support!” Croatian Prime Minister Andrej Plenković: “Congratulations and warm welcome to Finland as our new @NATO ally! It is a historic day that makes our Alliance stronger. We hope we will soon be able to welcome Sweden as a new alliance member as well,” he tweeted.  Prime Minister of the Czech Republic Petr Fiala: “Congratulations to Finland on joining the North Atlantic Alliance, for which it will be a great asset. This is a historic moment for Europe and for its security. I hope that Hungary and Turkey will ratify Sweden's accession and that it, as well, will soon become a member of NATO,” Fiala said in a tweet. The European Union's foreign policy chief Josep Borrell: “I warmly welcome the accession of #Finland to @NATO. This historic step will strengthen the Alliance, reinforce European & Transatlantic security and contribute to further fostering our #EU-NATO strategic partnership,” he said in response to Niinistö.   Hungarian President Katalin Novák tweeted: “As from today, #Finland is officially a member of #NATO. I welcome the people of Finland to our defence alliance. Today we grew stronger!”  Georgia’s President Salome Zourabichvili said in a tweet: “History made as #Finland becomes the 31st member of #NATO. Congratulations (Finland)! This is a strong encouragement, and (Georgia) will faithfully continue its Euro-Atlantic integration path #FinlandinNATO.”  ##Finland NATO## Finnish President Sauli Niinistö said Tuesday is a "great day for Finland, as the country officially becomes a NATO member." He emphasized the importance of Sweden’s bid for membership — which is still pending due to Turkey and Hungary's objections — saying the allies will all work for Swedish membership very hard. “We are doing that together with them, together with you and that will continue,” Niinistö said.  ##Finland NATO##   Russian President Vladimir Putin and Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko will hold talks in Moscow on Wednesday, the Kremlin said. Lukashenko will make a working visit to Russia on April 5-6, where he will take part in a meeting of the Supreme State Council of the Union State and meet with Putin, according to Belarus state news agency BELTA. According to the Kremlin, on Wednesday, the heads of state will discuss topical bilateral and international issues.  On Thursday, Moscow will host a meeting of the Supreme State Council of the Union State, which will be attended by Putin and Lukashenko. After a months-long push by Finland and many of its close allies, Turkey was the final country to ratify Finland's move to join NATO. But Turkey and Hungary are holding back support for Sweden which also declared its desire to join the military alliance almost a year ago — at the same time as Finland. Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan has previously said Turkey would not approve Sweden's NATO membership unless the country extradites "terrorists" upon Turkish request.  Sweden has made clear this won't happen, and for now, the process is stuck. But the US and European officials remain hopeful that Sweden will be able to join the alliance in the coming months.  ##Finland NATO## Finland has officially been named the 31st member of NATO, marking a major shift in the security landscape in northeastern Europe that adds some 1,300 kilometers (830 miles) to the alliance’s frontier with Russia. “Finland has today become a member of the defence alliance NATO. The era of military non-alignment in our history has come to an end. A new era begins,” the Finnish presidency said in a statement. “Each country maximizes its own security. So does Finland. At the same time, NATO membership strengthens our international position and room for manoeuvre. As a partner, we have long actively participated in NATO activities. In the future, Finland will make a contribution to NATO’s collective deterrence and defence,” it added.  US Secretary of State Antony Blinken, NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg were on hand at NATO’s Brussels headquarters as Finland's Foreign Minister Pekka Haavisto deposited the country's instrument of accession. Finland’s flag will be raised outside NATO headquarters on Tuesday afternoon in a ceremony attended by NATO foreign ministers, including Blinken. For all future NATO meetings, Finland participates as an Ally — seated at the table between Estonia and France. Finland’s acceptance into the US-led security alliance presents a blow to Russian President Vladimir Putin, who has long sought to undermine NATO, and before invading Ukraine, demanded the bloc refrain from further expansion. The invasion instead drove non-aligned Finland and Sweden to abandon their neutrality and seek protection within NATO, though Sweden’s attempt to join the bloc has been stalled by alliance members Turkey and Hungary. CNN’s Kylie Atwood contributed reporting to this post. ##Finland NATO## Finland’s acceptance into the US-led security alliance presents a blow to Russian President Vladimir Putin, who has long sought to undermine NATO — and before invading Ukraine — demanded the bloc refrain from further expansion. Here's what you need to know about Finland's membership of NATO and other headlines from Russia's war in Ukraine: Finland joins NATO: The country officially became the 31st NATO member on Tuesday, doubling the military alliance's border with Russia. The accession was completed during a formal ceremony at NATO headquarters in Brussels today, marking a major shift in the security landscape in northeastern Europe. Prior to Tuesday, five NATO members shared in Russia's land border. The Nordic nation ditched decades of neutrality when it announced its intention to join NATO last year, after Moscow launched its war in Ukraine. Ukraine's response: Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba has said he's happy with Finland’s accession to NATO, but added the best way to guarantee security in Europe is to have Ukraine join the alliance as well. Moscow's response: Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov told journalists that Finland’s accession is an "aggravation of the situation," referring to Moscow’s claims that the military alliance is planning to encroach on Russia’s borders. Moscow has accused NATO of threatening Russia’s "security and national interests" by officially welcoming Finland into the alliance. NATO’s aid to Ukraine: Western allies have delivered more than $70 billion in military aid to Ukraine since Russian invasion began, NATO chief Jens Stoltenberg said on Monday, affirming that the alliance’s support is for the “long haul.” Nuclear threat: NATO has not seen any changes in Russia’s nuclear posture since Putin announced late last month Moscow’s plans to station tactical nuclear weapons in neighboring Belarus, Stoltenberg said Monday. However, Russian Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu has claimed that Belarusian aircraft have been upgraded to be able to carry out nuclear strikes, in response to NATO's imminent expansion. Suspect in St. Petersburg explosion: Russian investigators have formally charged 26-year-old Daria Trepova with terrorism offenses over the killing of Russian military blogger Vladlen Tatarsky in an explosion Sunday in St Petersburg. Investigators alleged that Trepova, acting at the behest of Ukraine, brought a “statuette filled with explosives to a cafe in the centre of St. Petersburg and handed it over to military correspondent Maxim Fomin, known under the pseudonym Vladlen Tatarsky.” The explosion left more than 30 people injured. The Russian investigative committee have requested Trepova remain in detention until June 2. Her case is ongoing at the Basmanny court of Moscow. Bakhmut: Ukraine has denied reports that it is losing ground in the eastern city of Bakhmut and accused Russia and Wagner of lying about the status of the city. This comes after Wagner chief Yevgeny Prigozhin's Sunday comments that “in legal terms” Russian forces hold Bakhmut. Prigozhin made the claim while raising a Russian flag in Bakhmut in honor of the murdered military journalist Vladlen Tatarsky. He said the flag was being raised at the site of the council building. Video later surfaced of a flag being raised amid some rubble. ##Catch Up## ##Russian Blogger## ##Finland NATO##   The Biden administration is preparing to officially declare Wall Street Journal reporter Evan Gershkovich as wrongfully detained, which will trigger US government resources to work towards his release, according to two US officials. The designation will follow an ongoing internal review of the circumstances surrounding his arrest and is expected in the coming days, officials said. US officials from the State Department's office of hostage affairs will then lead US efforts to get Gershkovich home. Last week, State Department principal deputy spokesperson Vedant Patel said he did not want to get ahead of the process, but he did not believe there was any truth of the charge against the journalist. Russia charged Gershkovich, who is based in Moscow, with espionage. John Kirby, National Security Council coordinator for Strategic Communications, called the charge “nonsense.” Secretary of State Antony Blinken spoke over the weekend with Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov and called for Gershkovich’s “immediate release.” But even before that conversation the Biden administration delivered clear messages to Russia regarding Gershkovich's arrest. On Thursday, the State Department summoned Russian Ambassador to the US Anatoly Antonov who met with Under Secretary for Political Affairs Victoria Nuland, according to two US officials. Antonov had no response and he read the Russian public statement, one of the US officials said. Prisoner swaps have led to the release the last two Americans who were wrongfully detained in Russia. As US officials begin to consider ways to secure Gershkovich's release, some are concerned about a prisoner swap in this case, incentivizing the taking of American journalists, one US official said.  Wall Street Journal editor-in-chief Emma Tucker said over the weekend that she hoped the US would swiftly label Gershkovich as wrongfully detained. She said that it would be an official recognition that the charges against the reporter are “entirely bogus. Russian President Vladimir Putin said Tuesday that inflation in Russia is decreasing and that Moscow is implementing programs to strengthen the economy and domestic companies.   Inflation is "on a downward trend" and is expected to drop below 4% in March, Putin said while at a railway engineering plant in the city of Tula. "Yes, prices are growing and salaries are not. Yes, I understand, it's a key question for the whole country, for any working person," Putin said, answering a question from one of the employees.  "Solving this problem is a key task for the state. It is the number one task so that Russian families' incomes are in step with modern requirements." Putin added that the Russian economy has proven to be resilient in the past despite sceptics' expectations, referencing the wave of sanctions Russia faced in 2014. Putin didn't mention the sanctions Russia is facing over its war against Ukraine. However, several days earlier the president conceded that Western sanctions designed to starve the Kremlin of funds for its invasion could deal a blow to Russia’s economy. Tula is a major hub of machine building in Russia. The Tulazheldormash plant that Putin visited is one of Russia’s largest producers of machinery and equipment for railway construction and maintenance, and "on the list of backbone organizations of the Russian economy," the Kremin said in a statement Tuesday.  CNN's Hanna Ziady contributed reporting. NATO officials have put the onus on China to urge its ally Russia to withdraw forces from Ukraine. Canadian Foreign Minister Mélanie Joly, who represented NATO member Canada while speaking at a press conference at the military alliance's headquarters on Tuesday, said that if China "wants peace" then Beijing needs to "say to Russia to get out of Ukraine." She echoed earlier remarks made by European Union foreign policy chief Josep Borrell that China has a "moral duty" to contribute to peace during the conflict between Russia and Ukraine and "cannot be siding with the aggressor." Last month, Chinese leader Xi Jinping made a high-profile state visit to Russia to "play a constructive role in promoting peace talks," Beijing said at the time. But Xi stopped short of condemning Moscow's invasion. The war in Ukraine has ruptured diplomatic ties between Russia and Western allies of Kyiv, with Finland abandoning decades of neutrality to join NATO at a ceremony in Brussels on Tuesday. Joly said if Russian President Vladimir Putin "really wants peace" he "needs to get out of Ukraine." She added: "When Putin decided to invade Ukraine, he thought that he would be dividing us. He was wrong. Today's a historic day. Finland is joining NATO, and NATO is stronger than ever." Moscow has accused NATO of threatening Russia’s "security and national interests" by officially welcoming Finland into the alliance at a ceremony in Brussels later Tuesday. Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov told journalists that Finland’s accession is an "aggravation of the situation," referring to Moscow’s claims that the military alliance is planning to encroach on Russia’s borders. Finland shares an 800-mile (1,300-kilometer) border with Russia, but NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg told reporters earlier that the alliance's troops would only be stationed in Finland with the country’s consent.  The move, Peskov warned, will force Moscow to "take counter-measures to ensure our own security, both tactically and strategically." He said Moscow would "keep monitoring the situation and the deployment of NATO infrastructure and weapons on the territory of Finland," adding the "response measures will be taken accordingly." While Russia’s premise for its invasion of Ukraine was in part to fend off NATO from expanding close to its borders, Peskov rejected claims that Finland’s accession, a direct response to the war, was a geopolitical defeat for Russian President Vladimir Putin, claiming it is "fundamentally different" from the situation with Ukraine. ##Finland NATO## Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba has said he's happy with Finland’s accession to NATO, but added the best way to guarantee security in Europe is to have Ukraine join the alliance as well. "We are all happy for Finland today," Kuleba said as he was welcomed to the NATO headquarters by Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg on Tuesday. "Finland’s accession is a clear message that the time to revise old strategies and old perceptions has come and there is no better solution to ensuring Euro-Atlantic security as a whole than eventual membership of Ukraine in NATO." Finland reneged on decades of neu