UConn's Tristen Newton is lifted during postgame celebrations after the Huskies won the NCAA Tournament final on Monday, April 3. UConn's Andrew Hurley helps cut down the nets after the game. Hurley is also the son of UConn head coach Dan Hurley. UConn players lift the championship trophy. San Diego State's Micah Parrish and Tyler Broughton sit in the locker room after the game. UConn celebrates after the final whistle. UConn guard Jordan Hawkins celebrates during the second half. UConn's Donovan Clingan watches the game during the second half. San Diego State's Lamont Butler shoots a floater in the second half. From left, San Diego State's Aguek Arop, UConn's Andre Jackson Jr. and Butler box out during a second-half free throw. UConn's Adama Sanogo shoots the ball over Nathan Mensah. Sanogo finished with 17 points and 10 rebounds, and he was later named the tournament's most outstanding player. Newton blocks a shot by Darrion Trammell during the second half. San Diego State fans watch the second half. San Diego State head coach Brian Dutcher argues a call during the second half. Hawkins attempts a dunk at the start of the second half. It clanged off the back of the rim. San Diego State's Keshad Johnson celebrates after scoring. Butler, right, takes a charge on Clingan during the first half. At halftime, UConn led 36-24. Jackson competes for the ball with San Diego State's Adam Seiko. UConn's Joey Calcaterra shoots a layup during the first half. UConn fans celebrate during the first half. San Diego State's Matt Bradley is defended by Jackson. In the first half, San Diego State went more than 11 minutes without scoring a field goal. UConn head coach Dan Hurley yells during the first half. NRG Stadium, the site of this year's Final Four, is also the home of the NFL's Houston Texans. Newton pulls down a rebound in the first half. UConn fans cheer before the game. The flag is unfurled for the National Anthem before the game. Astronauts for the upcoming Artemis II mission pose for a photo at the game. The crew members, from left, are Jeremy Hansen, Christina Hammock Koch, Victor Glover and Reid Wiseman.