Kate Bolduan is co-anchor of CNN News Central, airing weekdays from 9am-12pm ET. Previously, she was anchor and host of CNN's At This Hour, where she went behind the headlines to bring viewers critical live events as they happen, smart analysis of hot topics, and news-making interviews with key players in politics and beyond. Bolduan also hosted State of America on CNN International and co-anchored New Day and The Situation Room with Wolf Blitzer. Bolduan played an instrumental role in the network's historic coverage of the 2020 Presidential Election amid the coronavirus pandemic, reporting live from the pivotal battleground of Pennsylvania that Joe Biden had secured enough votes to win the presidency. In 2019, Bolduan conducted the first television interview with Democratic presidential candidate Mayor Pete Buttigieg and his husband Chasten. That year she also secured an exclusive interview with the Syrian defector identified only by the codename Caesar about the human rights abuses he documented and smuggled out in secret. It was an interview credited by members of Congress as contributing to the passage of a sanctions package that bears Caesar's name. In 2018, Bolduan reported from Afghanistan with an exclusive interview with the top U.S. commander there, and secured CNN's first interview with Facebook co-founder Chris Hughes on his call to break up the social media giant. Previously, Bolduan served as a CNN congressional correspondent covering the activities of the U.S. House and Senate. She also served as a general assignment correspondent, helping to lead the coverage of and was in the room for the historic Supreme Court arguments over the Affordable Care Act and also led the network's coverage of other Supreme Court cases like the Chicago gun rights case McDonald v. City of Chicago, the fight over religious freedom in Salazar v. Buono, the death penalty, violent video games, and campaign finance. Bolduan joined CNN in 2007 as a national correspondent for CNN Newsource, providing breaking news coverage and feature reports for more than 800 CNN Newsource affiliates. During her time with Newsource, Bolduan covered the 2008 presidential election and traveled throughout the United States covering other national headlines. Before joining CNN Newsource, Bolduan was a general assignment reporter for WTVD-TV in Raleigh, N.C. She began her television career as a production assistant for NBC News and MSNBC in Washington D.C. Bolduan graduated Phi Beta Kappa with a bachelor's degree in journalism from The George Washington University. She is based in the network's New York City bureau.